the magic of technical interviewing
comes down to prep
parameters returns examples pseudo code
but there's a few things that we have to
do before we even get to the point where
we're using prep and we're solving a
technical coding challenge
when you're in the interview process
no part of that process should ever be a
mystery
you should know everything that's coming
up in that interview if you ever sit
down in an interview or you log into the
call with your interviewer and you don't
know what's about to happen you have
[__] up
say that one more time
you should never ever go into an
interview having no idea about what's
about to happen
so how do we know what's about to happen
we ask
we asked the recruiter we asked any
person that we've been put in contact
with we say hey I have an interview
scheduled for Friday what should I
expect in that interview
uh you should expect some behavioral
questions and a technical question great
when you say behavioral questions do you
mean kind of just like the normal hey
tell me about a time you had this
experience type question okay and for
the technical question which should I
prepare to be successful in that
technical interview
well actually we don't want to tell you
what to be prepared for well that I
don't want to waste your time and I
don't want you to waste my time either
right like I want to make sure that if
if you're going to test a very specific
thing then I'm I'm up to date on that's
a very specific thing that way we're
able to get right into the interview and
I'm able to save you all some time and
and make it better on my end as well so
are there any topics I should cover are
there any specific things that I should
know about for that technical interview
uh and if you don't if you can't hear
the topic will it be like a coding
challenge will I be doing something
that's more like a elite code style
question or will it be more of a code
along what should I be expecting in that
interview
right
and nine times out of ten not only will
they tell you what to expect they'll
give you like hints for That interview
and what you have to realize is that if
you just ask if you just ask they're
going to tell you most of the time and
sometimes
sometimes they give you way more than
they should
they should I've had recruiters tell my
students the exact questions they were
going to be asked during the interview
like the exact question
so you ask first
then once you've asked and you have a
rough idea of what you're getting into
the next thing you should do is Google
the company like someone's going to give
you a lot of money if you find something
out about them
right this is the one time in your life
where a Google search connects you
high five six figures even
because a lot of times the interview
process is clearly online a lot of times
the companies will have blog posts on
what it's like to interview at that
company
like with the actual questions uh and so
if you haven't done your research with
like what you should be like if you
haven't looked up the company you
haven't Googled what their process is
like they're gonna hold that against you
we have a blog post on exactly what this
interview is going to be heck we even
put one of the questions in that blog
post so not only were you not prepared
you didn't do any research on the
company right so you want to make sure
that you Google the crap out of them
because a lot of times they'll share
details about the interview process
directly from them
then you take it another level
you will go ahead and look on Glassdoor
you will go ahead and look on GitHub and
you're going to try and find anything
you can find about that company and what
the interview process is like so you not
only have you asked and got it directly
from the source but a lot of times on
Glassdoor you can find
not only like what the process is like
but probably the actual questions same
thing with GitHub a lot of people push
their solutions to GitHub and so you can
find sometimes the exact question you're
going to be asked on GitHub now
like I said I'm going to show you how to
play the game it's up to you if you want
to play it
but
putting in that extra step helps you so
that you're not going into these
interviews
right going into these interviews
without knowing what you're going to get
yourself into that relieves some of the
anxiety it relieves some of the stress
and it makes sure that you are prepared
yeah like I showed you the Spotify once
before I'm curious let's see let's do
GitHub
we said SoundCloud
I don't even know if they like interview
like
is it one word I don't want to do it
inside of my it just shows you my
interview
right like and this is not like a like
it's not like a hard search like I
didn't really like go searching for it
I'm not using like the way back machine
or anything like that like there we
could
right like these are older but like we
didn't even try
right we didn't even try
right we'd even try so imagine if you
gave it a good 15-20 minutes of trying
like you're really getting in there
right maybe you found like a type of
question on Glassdoor and then you threw
that and get like you're we're not even
trying and we're already seeing stuff
come up
uh you will also
you will also realize that a lot of
companies don't change their interviews
foreign
I'll leave it at this
one of the top startups in Boston
that pays the most
has not changed their interview question
in four years
and I bluntly asked them why
[Laughter]
I'm keeping it like come on now I'm
keeping it I'm keeping it uh keeping it
on under wrapped so that we don't put
them on blast and people are just like
throwing company names in there uh
hasn't changed it in four years and so I
I asked them why
and I know one of the engineering
managers that actually is in charge of
hiring for one of their teams
and they said the reason is why do we
need to change it the whole team knows
how to look at that code the whole team
knows
um how long it should take somebody to
solve it the whole team knows that
intimately and most candidates don't
know how to solve it
it is an amazing filter for them
right it is an amazing filter from them
because it's not a trivial problem but
they actually they say like if you
can't do the research
you can't look up the things that we do
at the company that's a huge like that's
just like a huge misstep like they
haven't changed in four years it's kind
of easy to figure out what you're about
to be asked and then they don't actually
care about the code at the end of the
day they care about your communication
and collaboration during the coding
challenge they expect anybody that would
work with them would already know how to
solve the problem so why does it matter
if they know how to solve the problem
like because they look like it it just
doesn't matter it's not what they're
testing
right it's not what they're testing and
so it actually is an even better filter
for them if you can't solve it because
they knew that you should have already
seen it
seven minutes said I was asked the same
interview question at a company out of
New York City that was identical to what
I found someone on Glassdoor had written
three years ago I just did a test run of
the question itself figured it out it
was surprised to see the technical
interview was the exact question I had
already solved when practice prepping
for the company
that's it
right because we have to realize that
the technical coding challenge isn't
like the make or break if your company
is hiring and that's the make or break
and you're not looking at all these
other things that's your fault
so
make sure you're doing the bare minimum
to know what you're doing going into
these interviews now we talked about
prep before prep stands for parameters
returns examples and pseudo code it's a
checklist of things that we're working
through when we're interacting with our
interviewer during a technical interview
when I say technical interview I mean a
coding challenge a lot of times these
coding challenges were done on
whiteboards and you're writing stuff out
more often than not nowadays especially
with the pandemic everything is online
and you're doing a coding challenge
digitally either through a platform they
share with you or you're sharing your
screen during the interview
and so this prep this parameter returns
example pseudocode which we're about to
break down really does three key things
for you
it helps you to better understand the
problem that's being asked
it gives you about 15 minutes to figure
out how you're going to solve the
problem
and it enables you to build a rapport
with your interviewer
and this is the key
thing
technical interviews test two things one
can you code and two do I want to work
with this person for the next two years
you're playing both games at the same
time
and so by working through prep
parameters returns example pseudo code
you can take that time to build the
rapport with your interviewer so at the
end they go this is a great person I
really like talking with them I would
definitely want to work with them for
the next two years so I'm going to vote
that we hire them
uh do we tell them that we've seen it or
something similar when they give you the
question uh I wish
I'm looking to copy and paste my notes
so I always have my notes on my side for
for my lecture notes
here here is my lecture I'm just going
to paste them right into chat so you can
see that this is literally in in the
red
that was literally my notes
so the notes said don't type out prep
don't get excited be cool you want me to
build a palindrome what's a palindrome
can you clarify what a pound drum is and
don't snitch on yourself
uh
we are lean mean interviewing machines
we've been prepping for months
you've been doing a code Wars every day
for months
now you're taking the interview process
even more seriously you're doing a a
challenge with me every day you're doing
leak codes now
you are prepping through each of these
you're adding them to your enki there is
a really big chance
that the question you get asked is a
question that you have already seen
that's the [__] point
of doing all this work
that's the point
that's why we do it all
so when we're in the interview we've
already done it or something at least
very close to it
and so one of the things you have to do
in that interview is and I see it all
the time when I enter when I interview
folks I I can I can pick it up right
but when somebody says all right tonight
we're going to do a palindrome I want
you to tell me whether or not a word
passed into a function is a palindrome
some people this is what they do
when I tell them a problem that I know
they know how to solve their eyes get
real wide they're like oh my gosh yes
they're like punching the screen and
stuff like like I can see in their face
that they know exactly how to solve the
problem that that's the code Wars they
did yesterday that they just they they
might as if I handed them the basketball
they'd be slam dunking over top of their
monitor right
don't do that
keep cool
be chill
don't get excited
repeat the question back to your
interviewer right make sure you
understand
take your time
and then walk through the challenges
though you've never heard a word of what
they're saying
take the dub
don't snitch on yourself
cool so
what we're going to do is we are going
to use prep
to solve a very simple coding challenge
I need you to use prep
for every single coding challenge you
you use going forward whether it's with
me whether it's on your own whether it
is uh a a coding challenge that you are
doing I I don't care you will now use
prep every day of your life for the rest
of your life whenever you solve a coding
challenge you should be prepping at the
mall at the studio at your mama's house
just be prepping
okay
now
there are three types of questions that
we're going to run into
I forgot I wasn't on the slides
there were slides for this be prepping
at the mall at the studio at your mama's
house now anybody know where this comes
from if people know where that comes
from I'll be impressed I'll make you VIP
if you know where that comes from
nah we ain't hip it was a reach it was a
reach uh this is from Montana 300 Chiraq
Remix They strapped at the mall straight
to the studios they strapped at your
mama's house so I keep that in my mind
we're gonna be prepping at the mall
at the studio at your mama's house you
do not solve a coding challenge for the
rest of your life
without doing
prep
are we clear are we good okay can can
can I just get a just get a yes we're
signing this this this pact this oath
that we will be using prep for the rest
of our days okay cool now
there are three types of problems that
you're gonna run into during an
interview
they're going to be methods problems
which are problems that you can probably
knock out the park just with the methods
that I've asked you to study so for the
past couple of weeks I've asked you to
study some very specific things I ask
you to study string Methods and array
methods specifically I even gave you a
list of the string Methods I wanted you
to have memorized I need you to have
them memorized I need you to have them
in your Anki because you will be
surprised the number of interviews with
just prep and really knowing your
methods right
you can get through a huge portion of
interviews
I want people to realize like you can
get through a huge portion of technical
interviews without knowing any advanced
data structures or algorithms just if
you know your methods really well and
you know how to use prep
the reason why this can work
is because a lot of these coding
challenges right A lot of these coding
challenges
we'll give you about 45 minutes to solve
you're gonna take at least 15 minutes of
the 45 to prep meaning you're walking
through the parameters the returns the
examples the pseudo code you burned at
least 15 minutes doing the prep
the reason why we do that is because
prep make sure you build a rapport with
your interviewer but it also Burns time
because we're going to slam dunk solving
the problem
but we might not get to the more optimal
solution
only you will know as you're going
through prep if you have a reasonable
chance of making it to an optimal
solution what most of you will see very
clearly is a way to solve it with
methods
and for problems that you can't solve
with the methods you're gonna do
something called Brute forcing
brute forcing is where you just use the
big four you're using your variables
your conditionals your Loops right and
your functions to solve a problem you're
not adding anything extra it'll be ugly
it'll be bad code but it would work
today I learned brute force is my
default it should be your default you
should always brute force your Solutions
first
and then as you have time come up with
the optimal solution
right we are we Brute Force first and
then come up with the optimal solution
so you are going to look at the problem
and by the time you are done your prep
you will know how to solve it with the
methods or by brute forcing it
that will be most of the problems that
you encounter
the last step is having detailed
knowledge on data structures and
algorithms that help you come up with a
more optimal solution than the Brute
Force solution that you just came up
with but here's the thing that will work
like 85 percent of the time remember
you're going to get got but you're going
to get yours more than you get got you
got to keep Marshawn Lynch in our brains
right
he spent 15 minutes on prep
you spent the next 25 minutes 20 minutes
let's say 20 minutes
solving the problem with methods or
solving the problem just by brute
forcing it nested for Loops ugly code
right bad code but it solves the problem
so you're 15 on prep 20 on actually
solving it you got five to ten minutes
left
hey
we got it working I know this is not an
optimal solution
we have about 10 minutes left and
unfortunately I do have a hard stop
right 45 minutes I do have another
interview I have to get to I would love
to talk about how I might attempt this
optimal solution uh but if we don't have
enough time that's okay what I what I
can do is I can just follow up after
this interview with the optimal solution
so I know we got something working I
feel like I can do it slightly better do
you agree okay what I'll do is I will
follow up after this interview uh with
the optimal solution and I'll take a
little bit more time to to to to to to
get it all the way across the line
as long as you're not interviewing at
Fang
there's a good chance that that might
work
does it work all the time no
but there's a good chance that it'll
work
the best offer I ever got
the best offer I've ever had anywhere to
work or learn to sorry to work
was an interview
where I brute forced it
I did not come up with the optimal
solution I went into the parking lot I
pulled out my laptop I Googled it I
figured out the optimal solution I sent
them an email saying here's how I would
do it optimally
best offer I've ever seen in my life
all right now the interesting thing
about folks are like Lee and I do want
to go to Fang I do want to go to the
Super top tier tier companies here's the
beautiful thing I've literally gone to
Google I've met with the in the person
in charge of interviewing like at Google
Boston's campus I met the people that
like on the committee to decide whether
or not you get hired directly from them
they gave my students a learning plan
and they said directly in their here's
how I want your interviews to go I want
you to prep I want you to brute force it
and then we expect our Engineers from
The Brute Force to get to a more optimal
solution so even if you want to do these
super high Echelon companies you still
have to do the same freaking process you
just need a little bit more data
structures and algorithms on top
right so it's still the same process
depending on how far you want to go
but for most of us we can get away with
the methods we can get away with the
brute force and then
we're going to see both of those tonight
and then on Thursday we're going to add
data structures and algorithm so we can
also do things optimally
I'm going to give you the full the full
range here but tonight we're going to
start off with methods so
I'm going to go ahead and open up a
replet
uh the most important thing I can tell
you about going into a technical
interview
is to have your environment already set
up
right if you know you're going into a
technical interview please For the Love
of All That is Holy have your
environment sent up I don't want to see
you fumbling with vs code or opening
some windows or trying to get stuff
going I I want you to be able to sit
down and start coding right away
um it it it's just something small that
shows the interviewer that you're ready
that you're prepared uh so I use replit
for any time I'm allowed to use my own
editor or I'm allowed to like type my
own code somewhere I just use replit
it's really easy to have
um either like templates already set up
to have node environments already set up
to have JavaScript already set up it's
just easy to to have it up and running I
don't have to worry about like having
Windows where it runs or anything like
that so I use replit if I can use my own
environment and then a lot of companies
will give you their own like they'll be
giving you like a coder pad or something
like that
um
anything that you're used to using will
work inside of repl as well but if you
already have right if you already have
some other system that just works well
for you and your your vs code is already
suited out your your vimasaurus I I it
doesn't matter it's just whatever you
know you're going to use become really
good at it have it already set up and
use it for whenever you are practicing
right so I use replit for interviews
that means all my code Wars all my leak
code everything is done inside of this
replit so whenever you're doing your
coding challenges going forward you're
going to use the same thing uh to make
sure that you're doing it well so
I am now going to pretend that I am
going through a technical coding
challenge
all right I am going to pretend that
someone is interviewing me and for every
single coding challenge going forward
you need to do the same thing
get yourself a duck get yourself
a a bob whoever you're going to talk to
throughout your entire interview you
need to have someone it could be your
your Gatorade bottle I I don't care
but when you're practicing your
technical interviews
right when you're practicing your
technical interviews you should always
always
imagine yourself in the interview
talking to an actual interviewer
no more just quiet typing to yourself
you want to be verbalizing everything
that you are doing
what you are going to notice is the
entire time that I am doing this coding
challenge I will not stop talking
your technical challenges are testing
two things can you code and do I want to
work with you for the next two years the
communication and collaboration is key
so Bob my interviewer
has just given me a problem
and their problem is Leon
I would like for you to create a
function for me that takes in a word and
the function should tell us whether or
not that word is a palindrome
thank you Bob I appreciate the question
just to make sure I heard it correctly
and do you mind if I take a few notes as
we go through the the process no I'm
going to take some it was wonderful
thank you so uh what I heard you just
say is that you want me to go ahead and
create a function and that function
should take in a word and that word uh
should be taken in and we should say
whether or not
whether or not that that word is a
palindrome
cool
what I will do now is not freak out
I've done this palindrome question a
bazillion times it's been on code Wars
It's been on League code I when you do
hunt Tober we're gonna do it together
too so when you see this and you say oh
my gosh I know how to solve it we don't
we don't do the bugging out and like oh
like no no like fist pumping
the very first question is we say great
thank you so much for the question now
just to make sure
a palindrome and I'm just going to
clarify with you here a palindrome is a
word that is spelled the same forwards
and backwards correct
and Bob will go yes a palindrome is uh
the word a word that is spelled the same
four words and backwards wonderful thank
you so much
always
clarify even if you think you know what
they are talking about
right
clarify because they might be talking
nonsense
so now we're on the same page we both
know what a palindrome is we both know
that we're going to create a function
that is taking in a word and we're going
to say whether or not it's a palindrome
great
The Next Step
is I'm going to start walking through my
prep and where a lot of folks make a
mistake is they do this
I see this all the time
don't type out prep
let this be the internal system that
you're using that makes you look like a
badass
but you don't need to let them know that
you're like using a system
all right so I even see people do it
they'll like type the p and they'll say
no no no we're just going to say all
right
so I would love just to ask you a series
of questions just to make sure I
understand the problem is that okay Bob
yes now notice what I'm doing here I am
asking a lot of questions to Bob and I
am getting them talking immediately and
one of the oldest sales tricks in the
book is to get your person saying yes as
early and as often as possible
so I'm I'm giving questions that I know
Bob is going to say yes to all right Bob
just to confirm a palindrome is a word
that is the same forwards and backwards
is that correct yes wonderful I'm going
to ask a series of questions just to
make sure I understand the problem
we are taking in a word so this is going
to be my parameters parameters are the
things that are coming into the problem
all right Bob so I know I'm going to be
taking in a word now for this word there
is a few things I I want to clarify
will a word always be passed in like
well I always have will it be a string
and will it always be a string
yes I can always assume that I will be
getting a string passed in great
will this string ever be empty
no so no empty strings okay
so no empty strings beautiful will this
string ever have any special characters
like a like a period uh a a bang or
anything in it that would be not just a
normal like a normal string or like a
normal word sorry
wonderful all right so I know that
there'll be no special characters I'm
just gonna say no bang and another thing
here will there ever be numbers mixed in
with this word no numbers
cool no nums so it seems pretty
straightforward it'll be a string it
won't ever be an empty string there'll
be no special characters there'll be no
numbers uh no funny business right
no funny business no extra things that
like would make the string not a word
okay nothing that would make this string
no funny business
and the last thing that I want to just
clarify here is will this word be case
sensitive will there ever be capital
letters will there be ever uh anything
that I have to keep in mind about this
word
okay uh no
no uh
no funny business and I I spelled it
funny there we go uh no funny business
and I don't have to worry about
capitalization thank you so no caps
and I guess when I think will there ever
be will that will the string ever be
multiple words or will always be a
singular word
I would always be one word all right so
one word
great so I feel pretty comfortable
knowing that this function will be
taking in a word
it'll be a string
it will not ever be empty it won't have
any special characters it won't have any
numbs really no funny business about
this string at all there's no capital
letters I have to worry about so it
won't ever I won't ever have anything
coming in that has a capital letter and
it will only ever be one word no spaces
or anything funny like that
is there anything I'm missing Bob about
this word or this string that might
cause me some headache down the line
no all right great so now I have a good
idea of the word that is coming in what
I'm returning to you I just want to
clarify what's what I'm bringing back to
you uh you said that you want me to say
whether or not it is a palindrome so a
couple points of clarifications here
will this word
when you say it say it's a palindrome do
you want me to literally say palindrome
or not a palindrome would you like it to
be like a Boolean like true or false
would you like it to be
um something unique
okay just a Boolean true or false so I'm
gonna return to you uh a a Boolean of
true or false so we're just going to say
true or false wonderful so I don't need
to do anything else other than from this
function just say true or false and you
want me to return that
wonderful great so I am taking in a word
that's a string empty no no funny
business No capitalizations One Singular
word I'm returning true or false do you
mind if I give you some examples just to
make sure we're on the same page yes all
right thank you Bob I'm going to write
out some examples here and we're just
going to make sure that we both are at
the same agreement as to what this
palindrome Checker would do so I'm going
to say something like the word race car
uh that would return
true
right race cars spelled the same
forwards and backwards that would be
true
is that does that work great I'm gonna
do another another string here let's go
ahead and do
um
Bob like your name and we'll go ahead
and know that that returns true and then
let's do one that would be false so we
can do like I don't know let's I'm
hungry right now so I'll say tacos right
so tacos would be false beautiful
all right do we agree that race car
would be true Bob would be true and
Tacos would be false is there any
is there any
example that you're thinking of that
might trip me up with the current
understanding I have of the problem
no this seems straightforward all right
so what I want to do very briefly before
we get into solving the problem is I
actually want to turn these into some
test cases for the running of the
problem so I'm going to go ahead and
just create my function real quick and
we're just going to call this is
palindrome because we just know it's
going to check to see if it's a
palindrome I know that I'm passing a
word into this palindrome which will be
the string that we talked about but what
I actually want to do is I want to call
this is palindrome and I want to pass in
everything that we just declarified
above in our examples so I'm going to
pass in race car and I would expect that
this would return true and so I'm going
to copy this real quick I'm going to
pass in our other two things that we
agreed on which was Bob which would be
true
and Tacos which you know would be false
and what I'm actually going to wind up
doing is just console logging these so
I'm going to go ahead and create my my
repo here
and um
see if uh Ripple is not let me do it all
at the same time so it's going to do
console.log
and I'm going to wrap each of these in a
console log just so that I can see the
the result over here in the console so
each of these will be console logged and
the cool thing inside this console log
I'm going to actually put the result as
well so I'm going to do a comma here and
we'll just say true which I know is a
string here I just want to be able to
when I run it I want to be able to see
like true true in the console false
false just so I know that I got the
right answer and that my code is
actually working so if this was to work
what would wind up happening is I would
call my
I would call my function is palindrome
and I would pass in race car and I would
expect this function to return true so
this is working in my console I should
see true true true
and false false and then I would know
everything is working if all these cases
worked would you agree that I have
solved the challenge that you've given
me today
yes okay so if these work you would
agree that I have solved right I will
solve the challenge now
let's take a pause here for a second why
am I doing this
why am I building out these like test
cases underneath my head
people keep using the word stalling I am
not stalling this is part of the process
I am showing this engineer that I can
think through a complicated problem
so many folks think that this is bad
like I I don't I I guess I get where it
comes from but folks think that I'm like
trying to trick the interviewer
interviewers love this [__] because I am
thinking through the problem
I am engaging with them nothing sucks
more than on your fifth interview of the
day having an interviewer that goes like
this
and do the two and then I think I did
the one and um I think this might work I
don't know if
the carries over and then I do the oh
and then I did that oh
lunch tomorrow
and then like three hours later they
come back and they're like I think I
solved it and you're like no you're not
even close like this is this is this is
not even I didn't say I didn't say
Fibonacci I said palindrome you built
the Fibonacci sequence not a palindrome
right like
I can't tell you like when you're an
interviewer
you're not doing one interview a day
you're often doing like five a day and
they suck because it's just it's just
it's just draining but if you have
someone that's like actually keeping you
engaged that's actually asking you
questions that makes it so that you're
not actually falling asleep that you
might actually get the chance to like
them you might actually get a chance to
to laugh to share something to to to to
to like bring them into that process
right if you're just somebody just like
Wham right into it like no question like
it
it it just it it's just not good like
you're not building that connection with
the person and that person's gonna zone
out it's their fifth interview of the
day they don't want to be there anyway
right and so they want to see that you
can think critically that you're
engaging them you're smiling you're
laughing with them you're asking them
questions right you're making it worth
their time and then last but not least
these are your receipts
I can't tell you how many times a
student has come to me and said Leon I
solved the problem and then magically
the problem changed like they decided to
add some nonsense on the end they
decided to
um tack on this extra bit that they
didn't say was part of the problem so I
am very clearly saying hey if this works
we're good right like this is the
this is the
the solution right like we we've got it
we've slammed dunk we've won and so in
30 minutes when they try to switch it up
you go whoa oh Bob hold on now we agreed
30 minutes ago
that have these worked
we were good
right
so these are your receipts
you're getting that agreement right and
you're you're getting that buy-in to
like the thing that you're trying to do
is the correct thing
right is the correct thing and if they
try to add stuff well now at least you
have something to say about it
right it's common that sometimes
interviewers will try and do something
more complex we'll talk about that when
we hit it so the last thing here is
we've done our parameters right we've
clarified what's coming in we've
clarified our Returns the r and our prep
we know we're getting a Boolean not some
string or something coming out we've
walked through some examples we've
walked through our test cases that are
made from our examples the last thing to
do is our pseudo code we're going to
talk high level about what we're about
to do before we start coding we want to
make sure that the thing we're about the
code is correct the pseudocode is the
high level plain language instructions
you're going to follow right follow to
solve this problem but before we do that
we're gonna take a break uh we're at the
top of the hour I don't want these weird
ads to run uh so we'll run our ads uh
during our break when we come back we'll
look at our pseudo code we'll finish
this up and we'll talk about from the
perspective of the interviewer what just
happened but what I hope you're taking
away from right now is that this is a
conversation I'm having with Bob I'm
trying to explain my thought process I'm
showing how I'm thinking through
everything and what this is enabling me
to do is to build that Rapport of my
interviewer it's giving me time to think
about how I might actually solve this
problem I just took 15 minutes
and I haven't actually solved the
problem yet but I could have been
thinking about it the whole time
cool let's take our break come on back
come on back all right so we spent some
time building this out
uh so far
we've walked through our prep our
parameters coming in was the word we
clarified everything about that word we
know it's a string and all these things
we clarified about the string we know
what we're returning which is a Boolean
of true or false we know that we have
some some examples that we work through
we build out our test cases for those
examples and also left to do is to
actually code this out now the whole
time we've been doing this I have been
talking to Bob
right I have been talking to Bob every
single question every single time thing
I do I keep asking Bob Bob has been
saying yes yes giving me feedback
talking to me this whole time
the reason why I do this is we talked
about the building the Rapport but there
is another reason why I'm doing this I
am priming Bob to answer my questions
let's think about that for a second
Bob has been straight up answering every
question I've given them
for the past 15 minutes
so when I get stuck and I ask a question
there is
a non-zero chance that they will just
answer it for me
I can't tell you how powerful
that is
right it doesn't work all the time
but if they've been answering your
questions this whole time you've built
up kind of like a collaborative process
here because most interviewers want to
see you win
most interviewers want to see you win
and they want to help you
because it means less work for them to
do on the job right they want to help
you
but they can't help you if they've been
silent the whole time because it just
won't be natural for them to help you
but if they've been non-stop talking to
you answering your questions and you
finally throw out the ass because you're
stuck they're just going to keep then
they don't know that they're just gonna
they're just gonna answer it
right and so the this is also a bit of
priming to get the help that you need
now most companies like a lot of
companies
tell their interviewers to give hints
literally the person in charge of
interviewing at Google that I was in the
room with talking about this said we
give we tell our interviews to give a
hint
right at least for that campus to give a
hint so if somebody gets to the problem
they've brute forced it and they're kind
of stuck at least on the optimal
solution they're literally told to give
them a hint and a lot of interviewers if
you've built up the Rapport you've
gotten them talking you asked for a hint
they'll give it to you or if you get
stuck they'll just tell you how to get
unstuck cool so we've walked through our
parameters our returns our examples the
p r e of prep the last is the pseudo
code and so the beautiful chance of the
pseudocode is to
is to
is to kind of stay high level what you
wanted to do so you've taken like 10-15
minutes to kind of get to this point
hopefully by now I have been using some
of that time the thing about what you
want to do and so I would take this time
to to kind of confirm with Bob what's
going to happen so Bob I know I'm going
to take in a word and what I want to do
is I want to reverse that word so I know
I'm going to take in a word and I'm
going to reverse the word uh now I know
in JavaScript that I can kind of easily
reverse that word uh using a series of
methods and those methods I believe are
split reverse and join uh I think for a
first pass reversing the word with split
reverse join would be a good first pass
what do you think
the Bible say yeah that sounds sounds
good so I'm going to say split
reverse join great
so the next thing I'm going to do
is once I've split reverse joined I'm
going to compare the Reversed word
to the original word
and if they are the same then I can
return true uh if they are not the same
I can return false so what I'm going to
do is I'm going to take in that word I'm
going to reverse it and then I'm going
to compare the Reversed word to the
original word
does that sound like a good plan of
attack for this function
they're gonna say yeah
right so like even even this part of the
process where it should be me right it
should be me kind of coming up totally
with the solution by myself is I'm still
asking Bob what do you think about this
approach is there anything that you're
noticing that I'm not noticing about
this approach that might cause me some
headache no this seems like a good first
pass it seems like you you'll this will
work right like you're literally asking
your interviewer are you seeing
something that I'm not seeing you could
have even said you know what Bob I know
that it's split reverse I always forget
the last one here uh do you remember
what that one is like that would be a
fair question right if if you have been
getting Bob to say yes over and over and
over again and you say split reverse
sometimes they can even help themselves
sometimes like join I'm like thank you
Bob all right and you just keep moving
cool
should we at least should we go for
least amount of code for readability I'm
going to get to that Dev give me give me
a minute to get down I'm gonna get that
it's a really important question all
right so I know I'm gonna take in that
word so I'm going to say let reverse
word equal and I'm gonna do the word and
then I'm going to split it
and this is where my studying of methods
comes in I'm going to reverse it
and I'm gonna join it
right and what that should do because if
you've done the methods work split
reverse join is in there if you've done
your code words you've done this
palindrome before split reverse join
they should all be in your Anki decks
right and this problem should definitely
be in your your your Anki deck so I am
reversing the word by splitting it into
an array reverse is an array method so
I'm reversing that I'm going to join it
back together into a string I would say
this out loud to Bob all right but I'm
going to reverse the word the way I'm
going to reverse the word is I know that
the parameter word is holding my word
I'm going to split it split turns it
into an array I'm going to reverse it
reverse reverses the array reverse it
specifically an array method so I have
to split it because there's no native
reverse method for a string and then I'm
going to join it to get my string back I
need it back as a string so that I can
compare two strings together and so down
here I'm just going to do a conditional
and I'm going to say
if
word equals
reverse word then I know that that is a
palindrome right if the if the word
reversed is the same as the original
word then that word is a palindrome and
I can return true
and if it doesn't equal the same word
reversed
right
right if it doesn't equal the same the
same word reversed I can go ahead and do
it with an else and I can return
boss now uh the way that you see this
here Bob uh is there anything that you
see that I'm missing or things that you
think I should do is slightly different
and Bob literally won't be able to help
themselves
I'll be like Leon you're missing the D
ah thank you I appreciate that thanks
for helping me out there let me throw in
the D here reversed word thank you so
much
I appreciate that thank you Bob
you really uh give me a solid with that
one great so now we've reversed our word
and we have a conditional to see whether
or not it is equal so we'll return true
or return false and let's go ahead and
just run this real quick Bob and see if
it works and we can see our test cases
all became true uh true was true true
was true and false was false so our code
work our test cases passed uh is there
anything here that you're seeing that
does not lead to what you were expecting
to see in terms of me solving the
problem let's leave the code quality off
the table for a second but in terms of
what
you want it to have accomplished like
determining whether or not a word was a
palindrome does this live up to your
expectations
yeah well thank you Bob uh now I do have
a few questions about this solution
at your company do you do you as a team
value kind of like commented code is
that something that you feel like is
left up to how you label your variables
would you leave these comments in would
you use these types of variable names is
there anything here that I did that
might not be the same at your company
okay so you would you would get rid of
the comments because the variable names
um are descriptive enough wonderful and
then
do you value kind of the readability
that you see here or would a shorter
number of lines of code be useful here
okay so a shorter a shorter number a
shorter lines of code would be useful
here so maybe I can get rid of the
conditional
all right maybe I can get rid of the
conditional here and um with the
conditional I can just I can just return
like word equals
reversed word right so now now we we
still get the readability of seeing that
we reverse the word uh we can see that
we've done the
comparison we know that this will return
true or false right uh but I do I do
like the readability of this uh do you
use like es6 like would you turn this
into like an arrow function at your
company
oh you do like to use Arrow functions so
I actually think I could do this as an
arrow function as well so what I'm going
to do is I'm going to just make a simple
arrow function here I'm going to comment
this out
and I'm just going to do const is
palindrome
and I'm going to set it equal to our
Arrow function we know we're passing in
words so I'll say word and I'm just
going to say does word equal
uh word dot split
reverse
and join
cool
so now let's go get myself a little bit
more room over here
we've used this lovely Arrow syntax it's
all in one line maybe we lost a little
bit of readability but I I feel that if
your company is definitely one that uses
kind of these Arrow functions uh this
could be a good fit uh is there anything
here that I'm not doing that you would
do on the job is there anything here
that you see that I should add or change
no this looks great wonderful thank you
Bob I really appreciate taking the time
to ask me this question to work through
it with me thank you for spotting the
the typo with the the reverse D and for
giving me some insight about how you
would actually code this on the job I I
think this this type of coding style and
collaboration is something that I really
value on the job and I think it could be
a good fit for me
foreign
that's how we do folks that's how we do
all right so there's a lot here right
there's a lot here we did a lot in this
time together
right
and
we've made a friend which is the goal of
these interviews right the whole time I
did not stop talking
every time I had a chance to ask Bob a
question I did I brought them in I
thanked them for their time and at the
end even though when I had solved it I
knew how to make it a little bit cleaner
a little bit better and so I began to
question about how they would do things
on the job
right what is what is what is your like
what does it look like like how how you
write your code what I am trying to do
at the very end
is to get Bob envisioning me working on
their team writing code that they would
write so that Bob can see that oh Leon's
a good fit Leon's already writing the
code that would be a good fit for this
team right like that's the
that's the goal
hey thank you for the raid let's go
thank you for bringing the crew along
hope you're doing well
saw that you were at uh twitchcon hope
your travels went well hope you had some
fun
welcome Raiders we we just finished up
doing a technical interview question
together uh we talked through our our
secret method of prep parameters returns
examples pseudo code
talking through how we can make it
through these technical interviews how
technical interviews are really testing
two things not only can you code
do I want to work with you for the next
two years and uh we're kind of wrapping
up with some questions here about how we
solved this first problem
churchcon was a blast hey I love to hear
it
that's awesome
cool all right while we're here
questions about this this first
challenge
uh why don't we use two lowercase well
we actually clarified in our parameters
that casing wouldn't be a problem uh so
maybe we've been even super specific I
said like it'll all be lowercase right
so that's something that you can you can
in your parameter stage clear up but if
you did not clear that up then you
definitely need to use that leave that
in your code
foreign
what level code Wars would this be this
is like a an eight maybe a light seven
uh can you get the checklist we can
practice with that is more
than just prep what do you mean blars
prep is the for coding challenges uh
prep is the checklist
would using Code Snippets be bad in an
interview if you have them in your
environment uh that's the thing you want
to talk to your interviewer about I
remember how we said we shouldn't go
into these interviews like an accident
we should know what we're getting into
before we show up for the interview one
of the questions I might ask the
recruiter or the the hiring manager
whoever I'm talking to before the
interview would be like hey
um what what's good on what's good
during the interview can I use Google
can I use resources like the mdn is it
okay to have documentation up is it okay
to use code Snippets that I have already
in my environment like you can ask all
of those things before you get into the
interview and then you can even confirm
those things with your interviewer too
hey I talked to Bob beforehand uh he
said these things were cool I just want
to make sure that we're on the same page
before we start the interview that these
things are still good in your eyes as
well
wet level challenges common interviews
well like I said
Rolanda like I said
Daddy Yankee
built a button
with HTML and CSS
no coding challenge
Sean
no technical assessment
there's like 30 more of these at least
on our celebrations Channel
where there was no coding challenge
because they did all the other stuff
that we talked about
right they did all the other stuff that
we talked about right
then a good portion of interviews if you
do prep well enough
you can make it through
with your prep and the methods that you
have really really well prepared
but every company is different
that's why we do our research and we
know what we're getting into before we
show up in that interview you should
never show up to an interview having no
idea what's about to happen you have
done you've already messed up you should
know you should be needling you should
be trying to figure out you should be
using glassware you should be using
blind you should be using
um GitHub to figure out what the
interview is going to look like should
be talking to the recruiter you should
be talking to people on the team you
should be talking to hiring managers
you'll be talking to the person that
gave you the referral you should have an
overwhelming amount of information about
what you're about to walk into so that
you know what to be prepared for
mm-hmm
so a large portion of your interviews
won't have a technical challenge if
you've done everything else to pass the
sniff test you have an amazing hundred
dollars project you have a portfolio of
work that has real clients that has real
engineering experience on it a lot of
times you can get into these with just
strictly behavioral
don't believe me go to celebrations
Channel see three 30 other plus people
that have done it then a strong portion
of your interviews if you do prep well
and you realize about communication it's
about collaboration it's about not just
strictly whether or not you can code or
not
you can get away with your methods right
you're doing the 10 minutes of prep 20
minutes to solve the problem hard cut
off
at the 45 minutes because you have
another interview to get to you can
always go ahead and send them more
optimal solution following up
right
and then there's gonna be a strong
number of interviews where you're going
to brute force your way through a
problem and that's enough right where
you're using just the big four variables
functions conditionals Loops if you use
the method we just talked about 15
minutes for prep 20 25 minutes for
trying to solve it Brute Force saying
hey I know we have a hard stop at 45
minutes I know I can get a more optimal
solution do you mind if I follow up with
it it'll work
does it work every time absolutely not
you're gonna get got yes you're gonna
get yours more than you get got
I guess I mean just a list of good
questions to be asking throughout
um yeah that's what this class was for
uh so I think a really good thing to do
would be to run this VOD back
right to run this VOD back
right
um
to to run this VOD back
and
listen to the questions that I'm asking
and then try to mimic those questions
even if you just like heard me say like
even if you just like paused it and then
said back what I just said right
that would be good practice to get into
like all right how did Leon clarify the
parameters
hey wolf thank you I appreciate that all
right how did Leon clarify the
parameters Leon all right Leon said will
it ever be empty that's a good thing to
keep it back in my mind it will be empty
we'll have special characters will there
be numbers will be a singular word will
capitalization make sense right and then
repeat that right get used to that add
that to your prep the reason why you all
agreed to use prep the reason why you
all agree to use prep for the rest of
your life is because the more you do it
the better you get at doing it right the
every code where you do going forward
every every
code you do going forward you're doing
this prep and you're talking out loud
you're talking to your duck the entire
time it is no longer enough right it's
no longer enough to just be one of these
people
that's to some problem I know there's a
hash map somewhere I don't know how to
do a hash map how do I do hashmap again
no
the communication and the collaboration
is just important and nobody's good at
it out the gate
I've I've hundreds of students
hundreds of students that I've helped
with this stuff I've never seen somebody
be good at this out the gate
ever
it's weird
we spent we spent
how many months
right how many months Talking to
Ourselves not talking to ourselves just
coding
right thinking through everything
internally now you got to start
verbalizing all the things that you're
thinking
right and so you practice every day with
the prep you practice the things that we
just did
and then remember 60 networked
applications so the first 10 that you do
they're gonna be bad but what you're
going to test out is like all right did
I like
I lost the interviewer at this point
I I I you know what I got two in my head
with the pseudo code I stopped asking
questions and I could see that they they
tuned out next time I won't do that next
time I'll verbalize all my pseudo code
so that I know
I I keep them on the hook right you take
those first few interviews those first
few interviews are gold you should be
giddy to bomb an interview you should be
the happiest person in the world to go
into that interview and and just
absolutely bomb
because you're going to learn so much
you're going to take that to your next
one
will they ever tell us to stop talking
uh no because you're not just talking
you're communicating with them like
don't be the person that just like
like you just got like your headphones
on you're just like jamming out you're
just like that's not what I was doing
the whole time
the whole time I was asking Bob
questions very important difference
I wasn't just talking
every single thing I was clarifying with
Bob I was talking to Bob I was getting
Bob to say yes I was engaging Bob in the
questions it wasn't just me talking like
at them I was literally and don't and so
this is this is a very common problem
glad you brought this up a common
problem is I've seen this happen quite a
few of my students because they're so
used to doing it with an inanimate
object they'll go all right so this um
this array will just be numbers right
great numbers only like they don't they
don't wait for the interviewer to say
yes only numbers they kind of just like
already filled it in their head that it
will only be numbers in the array uh so
just be mindful of that as well that
does that is that does become slightly a
problem
so what we will be doing through a
couple nights together is practicing our
technical interviews together
right so the first time you're doing
technical interviews shouldn't be in a
real interview it should be doing it
with us as a community together first so
we'll have a mock behavioral night and
we're gonna have a mock technical night
as well so that you can get practice
working through these questions
we're going to do it kind of um like
speed speed interviewing style where
you're just going to get paired up
randomly
one person practices you get feedback
then it switches the other person
practices you give them feedback and so
we're gonna we're gonna do at least uh
one a couple a night of Behavioral and a
night of technical so the first time
you're doing it uh it's not it's not
just you
Community taught exactly
all right
now
the the last thing I want to do is I
want to do one more problem we got like
25 minutes left
um
I'm gonna do one more problem just so
you can see
uh a point about brute forcing a problem
and then we'll stop there on Thursday
we're gonna show we're gonna start our
data structures and algorithms knowledge
so that we can take our brute force
solutions and make them more optimal and
we're going to talk about like what
optimal means like
how can we make our like what is why is
it our code good and how can we make it
better in terms of space and time
complexity if you don't know what data
structures algorithms are that's okay
we're going to do that on Thursday we're
going to use Big O notation all these
big words that we're going to treat as
disrespect until we get into class we'll
be there also you'll notice for homework
uh is the is is
there was a raw JavaScript course that
was an introduction to algorithms by
Scotch IO
and it was my favorite course for my
students to get a taste of data
structures and algorithms that was
simple it was approachable and then they
got bought out and it disappeared but
it's still in the way back machine
so your homework is to start going
through that tutorial but it's a little
weird because we're using the Wayback
machine to get through it so the link is
in Discord your homework is to start
doing that I recommend that you start
the homework if you have the privilege
of the time to start between now and
Thursday I definitely want you to do it
and then if you don't have that Proto
time you're going to finish it up over
the weekend but a lot of the core info
that we'll cover on Thursday comes from
that course because it's just so good uh
so we'll we'll start there just I want
to keep that in mind for for homework
all right
Brute Force
eventually
to reach a certain Echelon of
interviewing you have to move away from
code Wars
it's not that the code Wars problems are
not good problems to continue your
interviewing prep it's just that they're
phrased differently
and so
my advice to you is once
you are comfortable with seven cues
and you can take swings at six cues it's
probably time to leave code Wars and
make it over to leak code
okay
you don't have to pay for leak code it's
completely free just like code Wars if
you do pay like you can get like certain
like frequency lists and stuff like that
for specific companies
um but
my advice for folks is the reason why I
want you to switch to leak code is
because a lot of companies
right a lot of companies
mimic their questions
just straight off of Lee code and yeah
there are others there's code forces
there's project Euler there's like all
these other places that you can go to
that have these
but as someone
so for my students I typically ask them
to give me
a a report like we used to take for at
resilient coders after each interview
you told us like what you experienced in
that interview
and across hundreds of interviews you
would be surprised
the number of companies that are going
to leak code
searching for high frequency problems
and yanking The High Frequency easy
problems and asking them during the
interview
it was mind-blowing the first month we
asked for this feedback and I could I I
got a taste for like what the questions
were being asked
a shocking and alarming amount of
companies are taking
high frequency problems off of leak code
and literally asking those problems with
slave variations sometimes with little
changes little tweaks here or there
um
so that's why I asked my students to
eventually make their way over delete
code I really do believe
if you've done everything we talked
about tonight and you've studied your
methods they're committed to memory you
know what they are and you talk about
your code and you go through the process
that we do tonight you could get a job
with just that knowledge to open more
doors
right to open more doors we also start
the leak Kodak style problems and we
sprinkle in some data structures and
algorithms as well
you do not need this
to get a job
I've seen hundreds of students that have
never had a leak code s problem be the
deciding factors to whether or not they
got a job
right and so this is just opening that
last door that will give us more
opportunity and it's something that
we'll be practicing throughout hunttober
is like getting good at these types of
questions what makes leak code hard at
first is that the way they phrase
questions is a little more
computer sciencey then maybe code Wars
would be and so it takes a little while
to get used to that style of question it
gets used to it takes a while to get
used to talking about it in that way so
that's why we make the transition
cool this is a very common problem I'm
even seeing some people in chat say that
they ask this problem at their company
uh this is a two-some problem uh two
Summit when you go to leak code you can
sort by like high frequency uh this is
like the like the most common question
so many companies ask this
yeah so many companies ask this but
let me let's get into the the boardroom
real quick
this is opening a door
do you need this no
this is opening a door that opens up
more interview possibilities for you but
if you know your method's cold you know
your prep cold you could still get a job
I've shown you people that had less than
that and still got jobs that's enough
for a strong portion of the interviews
you'll go into if you use the methods we
talked about tonight but this last piece
this leak code data structures algorithm
is the last piece to open up more
opportunity for you so that more
interviews go your way
cool
alrighty uh this is something we'll be
practicing during hunttober right and
one of the things that you'll notice
about this question is that this
question lends itself to a Brute Force
solution pretty quickly all right so the
question is given an array of integers
which we'll call nums and an integer
Target return the indices of the two
numbers such they add up to the Target
so I'm going to go ahead and create a
new replit for myself create
all right should have had this prepared
I took my own advice
all right have a new replet I'm gonna
say all right Bob thank you for the
question just so I can I can hear this
question again uh you want me to go
ahead and take in
an array of integers and an integer
and then return the indices of the two
numbers as they add up to a Target so
I'm just going to repeat this back to
you you mind if I take some notes all
right thank you Bob all right so you're
going to give me an array of nums and
you're also going to give me a Target
number
and what you would like for me to do is
to return
the indices
of the numbers that
add up
to the Target
now that's a lot of big words
I'm going to treat them as disrespect
and this is why we start this process of
prep
it's why we start this process of having
a way that we're going to approach these
problems because
this will happen in interviews where
you're like well
right but we don't do that
say all right Bob thank you so much
and then you work through your prep
and your prep gives you what
prep gives you what
ref gives you 15 minutes to figure out
what the [__] they're talking about
exactly
all right Bob so you said we're taking
an array of numbers
and you're also giving me another numb
that you're calling the target
so I have an array of numbers and a
target number
and what you want me to do is add two of
the numbers in the array
so that they equal the target number
but you don't want the actual numbers
you want the indices of those numbers so
just to clarify
will have an array of numbers and if you
don't mind I'm going to go ahead and
create an array of numbers here just so
that this is not so kind of like
theoretical and we'll say we'll say one
two three four five and you're going to
give me a Target number let's say that
Target number is
let's say nine
right
so you want me to return
two numbers that add up to nine but
instead of returning the numbers you
want the indices so let's look three and
four is seven four and five is nine so
those two numbers add up to our Target
of nine but you don't want four and five
you want their indices so if this was an
array indices is the plural Index right
Bob ways to indices you mean the plural
of of Index right so in this case you
would want 0 1 2 3 and 4. so the actual
return of this would be uh three and
four because those are the indices 0 1 2
3 and 4.
right
so that is do I have a clear
understanding of the problem Bob an
array of numbers like this a target
number and then instead of you're gonna
figure out which two numbers get added
up to equal this target but in the end
you don't want the actual numbers you
want the indices of those numbers is
that correct I have a grasp on the
problem Bob all right thank you so now
they have a grasp on the problem I want
to run through just some quick
clarifying questions
just to make sure I really understand
everything you're asking of me so
this array of numbers that you're giving
me this array of nums
will it ever be empty
so not empty great uh
will ever have anything
that's not a number
so no special characters no Boonies
nothing funny just always numbers right
always numbers so always nums
wonderful
will the numbers always be whole numbers
right will there ever be like like
floated values so always whole okay uh
will there be like negative and positive
like will there be like negative numbers
positive numbers no they'll always be
positive great so they'll always be
positive
great hope you're having a positive day
today Bob all right so in random numbers
the array will never be empty it'll
always be nums there will always be a
hole they will always be positive and
I guess since I know I have to add up
two numbers
will the array always have at least two
numbers
yeah always always at least two
we'll say let's say at least two
we'll say at two I'm just gonna say at 2
just remember at two and
those two numbers that are in the array
will always hit the target right there's
there's there won't be a situation where
the array
doesn't have numbers that match the
target
cool
all right so just to run that back it's
an array of numbers the array will never
be empty we'll always have at least two
numbers those minimum of two numbers
will always match the target there will
always be two numbers that actually
match the target it'll always be nums
they will always be whole they will
always be positive is there anything Bob
that I'm missing about this array of
numbers that might be odd or might cause
me some headache down the line
cool seems like I'm on the right track
and I'm just going to assume that the
things we stipulated for the numbers in
the array
also go to the Target as well so the
target won't ever there won't ever be
like a missing Target uh there won't
ever be any like funny business it'll
always be whole positive numbers there's
nothing funny about the target as well
cool all right I think that gives me a
good place to get started uh you also
ask that I return the indices of the
numbers that match the target so we're
going to return the indices
of the nums that add up to Target
and those indices would you like them
just as two numbers would you like them
in an array I think an array makes the
most sense correct all right wonderful
so I will put those numbers Bob into an
array for you and so those indices will
be in an array
wonderful so we have coming in an array
of numbers that we clarified a Target
that we're clarifying and coming back
out to you Bob will be an array of
numbers
do you mind if I run through some
examples just to make sure that we're on
the same page Bob that what I'm thinking
is what you're thinking
wonderful all right so let's go ahead
and run through just just a quick
example we actually already have the uh
example up here that we walked through
um can we do one more please at least
please let's do two more if you don't
mind uh so I'm gonna go ahead and do
uh five we'll go ahead and do five let's
do five six nine
and let's go ahead and pass in the
target
of 11. I'm gonna change this to a comma
just make it easier myself of 11 and so
we know that five and six would be equal
to 11 so we're gonna wind up returning
I'm gonna change this to an array here
because you asked for the array to come
back Bob uh you would want to see here
not five and six which is the tricky bit
about this problem Bob you'd want to see
Zero and one is that correct Bob
cool
all right
let's go ahead and do one more example
here and I was going to pick some like
random numbers let's do 22 let's do
seven let's do 100
let's do five and let's do a target of
I don't know let's do what's seven plus
five that's twelve let's do a target of
12.
seven plus five would give us 12 so then
we would have in this array 22 would be
zero seven would be 1 100 would be two
five would be three so we'd wind up with
an array of one three now as I'm walking
through
as I'm walking through these these
arrays
a couple things are kind of starting to
come to mind Bob does it matter the
order of the numbers in the return array
does it matter the order of the numbers
in the original Rays they come in
does that matter at all
cool no it shouldn't the order position
shouldn't matter okay just something I
was thinking about all right uh if you
don't mind I'm actually going to turn
these into some test cases for us and so
let's go ahead and build out a function
here and this function is going to
this function is going to take in a
Target and return indices so we're going
to find
indices
and I was going to call it that I think
find indices is good enough for right
now we know we're going to take in some
nums and we know we're going to take in
a Target
uh we know those numbers is an array
though so I'm just going to call this an
array
and Target
and
I'm going to go ahead and call this a
few times so I'm going to go ahead and
run find
indices
and I'm going to pass in the stuff that
we have here so I'm just going to yank
this
great
plop that in
that'll be our first test
I'm going to copy and paste this and
actually I'm going to put these in a
console log just to make sure our lives
easier easier
console.log boom
and I'm going to put the solution here
as well so that when we run this code we
should see the output in our solution
and they should match since these are
the ones that we agreed to I'm going to
put three and four here I know this is a
string but it's just so that I can see
it in the console on the right Bob all
right so we have three and four here I'm
going to go ahead and copy this and I'm
just going to do the other two examples
that we walk through uh once again it's
going to grab this array and Target here
wonderful and this value should be 0 1
instead of three four
and I'm going to grab the last one Bob
and then we'll be done with our test
cases
let's go down here boom uh so we grab
this from here as well
and
change this up here and then the last
one is just this one and three just to
make sure that we know that we got the
correct answer
all right Bob I think we both agreed
that these
these
Solutions here if if if this code runs
and we wind up with matches to our test
cases here we could both agree that I
solved the problem it would meet the
conditions of what you were expecting
for this problem
awesome thank you Bob uh so what I'll do
is I'm going to work through coding this
out and we know when that we run this
code if these all are the same or true
then we will go ahead and assume that we
solve the problem correctly
alrighty
so the last thing I want to do here
before we kind of get into the Nitty
Gritty is I want to go ahead and solve
the problem and pretty clear to me is a
Brute Force solution
right pretty clear to me is a Brute
Force solution that while not optimal
would get this working quickly and so
I'm a fan of getting a Brute Force
Solution on the board as we have time we
can optimize it and so the Brute Force
solution for me is I know that I have to
find two numbers that match the Target
and so whenever I know I need to pick
two numbers right off the top of my mind
the Brute Force solution the non-optimal
solution here would be to just do two
nested for Loops right the outside Loop
grabs the number and then the inside
loop checks every number against that
that other number and then if those two
numbers add up to the Target we found
our two numbers we can grab their
indexes and that's what we return
uh is there
any problem that you would foresee with
that Brute Force solution
no sounds like it would get get to the
get to the point all right so let's go
ahead and do that let's go into a for
Loop
inside this for loop we're just going to
set up a variable let I equal zero we're
going to go while I is less than array
dot length right so that should make it
so that we can go to the total length of
the array and each time we run we're
going to make I go up by one and what
we're going to do is
we're gonna have just another loop that
goes right inside this right so the
outside Loop will be responsible for
grabbing one number and then the inside
loop will be in charge of comparing that
number to every other one so I'm going
to say let k equals zero I'm going to do
while K is less than array dot length
cool
and this will go up by one as well so
we'll do K plus plus now inside these
nested for Loops all I have to do is
compare the two numbers and so
for me I know that the
outside Loop I'm gonna put some comments
here outside Loop is grabbing the
original num so we'll say grab a num
and then the inside loop will be
comparing
outside num to
internal
numbs Bob so far does this seem like
something that will get us the to the
what you're thinking like we grab a numb
from the outside like we just grab one
for example and then our inside loop
would compare one to two to three to
four to five and then if it doesn't find
nine well then our outside Loop would
grab it and go boom boom boom something
we could do like that that sound like
something that would get Us close
cool all right thank you Bob so that's
what I'm going to do I'm just going to
do a quick comparison in here I'm just
going to say all right
if
array I
Plus
array k
equals our Target uh we know we grabbed
those two numbers right
I know I'm grabbing those two numbers
right I know that I'm grabbing
I know that I'm grabbing a number from
the outside Loop and then I know that
I'm grabbing the numbers on the internal
Loop I'm just going to add them up
together to be the target
so if I ever wind up where this is true
then I found the two numbers right I
found the two numbers that match the
Target and I could just go ahead and
return those two industries actually
since it's already know the indices of
the numbers that equal the target I can
just return I and K but I I did run into
something that we didn't clarify with
the parameters Bob
something that just came to mind as we
started typing this out is will there
ever be a situation
right will there ever be a situation
where
the same number equals the target
right like the number added to itself
will that ever equal the target
right so I think that's the first thing
I'm worried about so can you clarify
that Bob Bob will there ever be a
situation where
um the number plus itself would equal
the Target no all right so we can also
I'm just going to add that up here
um
number plus self
will never equal Target
awesome thank you for clarifying that
Bob and the other thing that I'm that
I'm noticing here is
will there ever be a a multiple
Solutions inside
of this array
right will there ever be multiple
Solutions or can I always assume that
there will only be one solution where
only two numbers will equal the target
cool all right thank you Bob so only two
numbers will ever equal the target
and we know that those two numbers won't
be the number plus itself
cool
so we we don't have to worry about kind
of clarifying anything here if we really
wanted to just uh if if we hadn't kind
of asked this we could have just done
something like this where we say like I
also doesn't equal K like we could have
just made sure that we weren't using the
same number in the array like if if we
were both on
zero and we got one one then this
wouldn't be true
all right so I think this should work
Bob where we're grabbing a number on the
outside we're grabbing all the other
numbers to compare it to if the two
numbers equal the target then we go
ahead and we return the indices uh that
we set so let's just go ahead and run
this real quick
look at our answers here three four zero
one one three beautiful it looks like it
worked uh we said if these conditions
ran then we know that our code works it
looks like we're finding the correct
numbers that add up to the Target and
returning just their indices which is
what you asked for so the problem does
work now
uh we did spend a little bit of time on
this sub-optimal solution uh I know we
have about 10 minutes left uh the way
that I would solve this well I would
love to tell you how I would solve this
in a more optimal way we have about 10
minutes left and I'm sorry unfortunately
I do have a hard stop I do have to go to
my next interview I would definitely
love to follow up by email with the
optimal solution just because we might
not have enough time to do it right now
do you mind if I have your email Bob
just so I can send you the email of the
optimal solution uh quickly while we
have some time to talk about it I would
solve this uh pretty easily with a hash
map and so I think if we're talking
about more optimal code I could use the
hash map and that's something I think
that we could work towards uh to get
this to be more optimal if I
took this solution that already solves
the constraint and we went ahead and
made it more optimal using kind of a
slightly different data structure and a
slightly different algorithm maybe if we
just use the hash map is that something
you think would get you very close to
the solution you had in mind
wonderful all right thank you Bob I
really appreciate your time today I
really appreciate you taking out the
time to walk me through this question to
clarify everything that we've done here
together and um I know that I was
talking to Rachel earlier she told me I
got to get my butt to the next one but
I'll send you an email blob very quickly
as soon as I'm done that next interview
with the optimal solution and uh yeah I
I really appreciate your time I'm really
looking forward to hopefully joining
this company everyone I've talked to has
been amazing and so yeah appreciate your
time
I hope tonight you saw the process that
I used for every single interview it
really is prep it really is about
engaging with your interviewer about
building up that Rapport getting them
saying yes and it's something you can
practice right it's something that you
can practice now
the end of this code I was able to do
this quite quickly I I didn't have a lot
of like I didn't have I know we only had
so much time left in class so I went a
little faster than normally would I
actually kind of skipped my pseudo code
a little bit I kind of went back and
added the comments I didn't want to add
the comments first and then fill in the
the loops and
even though I know how to solve this
with a hash map I am still
doing the Brute Force solution first
right I'm still building up to the
optimal solution I'm still talking my
inner viewer through right my thought
process and showing them that I can
solve it uh with even just the basics
now
what we will be doing
over the next two classes is talking
about our data structures and our
algorithms so this is not an optimal
solution think about how this has to run
a loop inside of a loop takes a lot of
time like for us to get to the next
number we have to run all the numbers go
the next number run all the numbers go
the next and run all the numbers that's
just not efficient right and so what
we're going to do is talk about next
class how to make our Solutions
efficient both in something called time
and in space and we're going to learn
all these data structures and algorithms
what they really are at the core level
and then start putting them into
practice over the next few classes if
you're doing hunt Tober that's the point
is to kind of do these every single day
we start off with kind of simple method
problems then we move on to brute force
solutions and then we move on to more
Optimal Solutions with data structures
and algorithms so that's the goal the
goal is to build up these things
to get to the point where we feel
comfortable no matter what door gets
open to us that we can destroy our
technical interviews so I hope tonight
was helpful I hope that you got a little
glimpse into what it's like to solve
these technical challenges I hope you
re-watch this VOD and you practice it
you gotta get serious for a minute
before we get into our data structures
and algorithms today uh today we're
going to have a gentle introduction to
data structures and algorithms we're
going to talk about like why they're
important see the beginnings of
something called Big O notation and
hopefully have some new tools that will
enable us to do better during our
technical interviews to evaluate the
code that we're writing with a little
bit more clarity and have the what I
like to think of is really the last door
you need open to get the job
okay
now
kind of went in a little bit this on the
uh
at the beginning
but you are ready
if you've been following along so far
you're you're caught up
with everything that's been asked of you
you submitted your stuff for hunt Tober
or you're very close uh you are ready
there is nothing else extra you need to
get a job
other than to go on the hunt
right the Hunt is a long grueling
process when we look at the when we look
at our
trough of Sorrow that last dip is where
the hunt really exists where you've been
going through this trough for a long
time you're kind of just starting to get
used to being in the muck and then it
just gets really bad and it gets really
bad because the first few interviews
typically don't go that well
sometimes you get lucky in your first
interview is the one you knock out the
park and that's always wonderful but by
and far for most of my students their
first three to four interviews are just
not great
and when that happens
it can take a lot of air out of your
Sail
it can it can make you doubt all the
hard work that you put in
and so I just want to be
very on the nose
that
the trophosar that I showed you that dip
at the very end is a very very real
thing
but you are ready
you know the basics of HTML CSS
JavaScript object-oriented programming
you know the basics of of node you know
the basics of Express you know the
basics of mongodb you know you know how
to build full stack web applications you
know how to
do so many wonderful things you've built
so many projects so many code challenges
have been solved so many bits of
information are now in your brain that
other folks do not have you know things
that folks have been running JavaScript
for years don't know you know things
about the event Loop you know things
about all the little Nitty Gritty stuff
what promises really are with the the
async await is really underneath the
hood all these things that you spent
hundreds of hours
putting into your brain
that has value
and it will be appreciated when you find
the right fit for you
and so you are absolutely 100 ready to
start the hunt and to get the job you
need nothing else
you don't need more react you don't even
need the data structures and algorithms
we're going to talk about today you
don't need to do anything else other
than to commit to the process
build out your Hit List start reaching
out to Folks at the companies that
you're interested in build a rapport
with them get get in so you can get a
coffee chat with them get the referral
right research the hell out of the
companies research the hell out of the
interview process when you get the
interview don't go into your interviews
like an accident be ready to prep your
ass off to to talk and engage with your
interviewer let your
skills shine
this part of the process even with all
that being said is increasingly hard
because I'm not going to stop
showing you all folks that are getting
jobs so many folks have gotten jobs
recently if you go on that celebrations
channel it's just honestly ridiculous
now
um
and and and even more folks that don't
even Post in celebration Channel like on
Twitter they they post it they send me
messages privately like
it's wild in these streets right now
um how many folks are getting jobs and I
can I understand
that when you see others around you
doing really well that can even take an
even bigger hit on your confidence as to
whether or not you are ready
other people's success has no bearing on
your success and so you can't compare
yourself to others you can't look around
you and be like wait a minute there are
five seats ahead of me on the roller
coaster why are they pulling into the
station earlier nah we're all on the
same roller coaster you're gonna get
there you should see other people's wins
as proof that it can work and that can
work for you learn from their experience
learn from what they did well what they
didn't do well and incorporate that into
your hunt
Evan Shaw said I was asked about Big O
linked list and doubly linked list in my
interview I flat out told them I didn't
know still got the job a did study all
night and followed the next day with the
answers to the OG question let's go uh
Evan we actually just answered that
question today uh in stand up so one of
the questions somebody asked was Leon
what if I prep my way through the
question and I still don't know how to
solve it it's exactly what Evan just
said
you say hey I feel like we've we've come
to a a good point here where I have a
really good idea of the question uh but
at this moment I feel like I can come up
with an optimal solution I would just
need some more time are you okay with me
following up after this interview with
the optimal solution get their email or
some type of contact information and as
soon as the interview is over
immediately try and solve the problem
get the correct answer and follow up
with them does it work every time no but
you'll be surprised how often it does
right
I can't stress enough you're going to
get got you're going to get more than
you get got if you just go through the
process
uh can you ask your interviewer for
feedback if you didn't get the job you
can
um but in my experience a lot of
companies
have policies where they can't because
they don't want to get sued
um so if you have if you did it right
like if if you just clicked apply the
answer is typically going to be no
they're going to be less likely to give
you feedback but if you if you
um networked your way into that
opportunity and you got a referral your
connection is not with the company your
connection is with the person that gave
you the referral and you can sometimes
ask them for feedback and so they're
you're more likely to get feedback if
you do the process in the way that we
that I ask you to do the process
I was surprised to see the folks out
there that got jobs with the take-home
Tech question wait until you see the
folks that got jobs with no technical
questions not even a Takeo it blows my
mind I've been doing this for 10 plus
years and the folks that I've seen get
jobs in the in the wildest of ways blows
my mind and I don't even I don't even
share my experience anymore I just
literally take the text of people that
are telling you and put it in the slides
because I just know at this point nobody
believes me like I just don't think
people will believe me so I I stopped
telling you hey I've seen hundreds of
people get jobs uh with like very
minimal technical like interviewing and
yeah so that's why in the slides I put
the ones I think are that highlight that
it's wild
cool so I wanted to put that out there
you are ready
you're ready to do this you have the
things that will make you attractive to
employers
you gotta start
this is this is this is your sign to
start the process to to start the hunt
to start taking your Hit List seriously
to start reaching out to people to start
getting your applications in front of
individuals uh so that you can get the
job over the next few classes we're
going to do the last little bits that we
need to be prepared we're going to build
The Hit List live I'm gonna give you
lots of templates to do successfully but
you need to
get into that gear where you're ready
for the hunt where you're ready to go
out weekend after weekend and catch
nothing to come home hungry only to do
it again the next day
now the other thing too I talked about
kind of like comparing yourself to
others uh we're at this really weird
point where
everyone kind of becomes a code weenie
and so please be mindful of your inner
code weenie uh especially as we do hunt
Tober and we're doing a coding challenge
together every single day uh there are
just gonna be people that literally
can't help themselves right that that to
like
history
I did it in one line Leon one line
right so just know that the uh that that
at this point in program
uh everyone kind of becomes a little bit
of a code weenie uh be mindful that
you're being a code weenie uh be mindful
that you uh your experience is gonna be
very different than anybody else's
experience we're all interviewing in
different locations with different
companies with different experiences
with different backgrounds with
different paths and so your experience
will be nothing like anyone else's
experience
um
so many folks when I when I when I try
to give advice on interviewing uh know
that that you are going to have
conflicting experiences
because that just has to happen right so
what I try to do is I try to look at
hundreds of interviews right across
hundreds of companies and synthesize the
things that come up the most
but no
that you might be an outlier and you
might run into some weird stuff that we
haven't covered or things that are a
little bit different that's okay your
experience might be a little bit
different
but by and far a lot of the same stuff
is going to come up over and over again
so be careful of your code weenie when
folks are asking for help when they're
doing the coding challenges be helpful
uh when we're in let's say Remo for for
the for the for the for the stand up
make sure you're being helpful in those
chats make sure you're being helpful on
Discord no one cares about your
one-liner help somebody understand how
to actually solve the problem that's way
more impactful on yourself and is way
more impactful in the community as a
whole so you're ready be mindful of your
inner code weenie and be mindful too of
the energy that you bring to a space
right you all have the power to to make
somebody's day a little bit better
because we're all interviewing now
people are going to have some really bad
days you don't need to pile on them you
don't need to to point out flaws you
don't just support each other right and
so know that as we start the hunt and
people start applying it's a really
rough experience for a lot of people be
mindful of the energy that you bring be
mindful of the the emotional weight you
put on others and try and lift each
other up because it is just a really
stressful process the beauty of doing
this with the community is that there
are people to help that there are people
to uplift really make that your goal
this next month to to be a positive
force on Discord on Twitch on Remo
because it really can make the
difference in a lot of people's lives as
they go through what is a very rough and
difficult situation
yeah it's kind of really hard to carry
these boats and logs by ourselves so
let's let's do it together
good
cool
don't be this person
all right don't be this person
it's your turn to build out your hit
list
but 60 companies with open rolls on that
hit list start doing the real work of
reaching out the folks
that are at those companies
right that are at those companies
get a referral into those companies and
if you're you're having some stress
about how to do that this could be one
of our classes next week is how to
actually do this process so if that real
work of how to get a job is is stressful
don't worry we're gonna have a whole
class on how to do it uh on Thursday
clicking apply
should be the very very very very last
thing you do
I've always said never click apply but
the reality is do everything the right
way and then maybe click apply
who is this person what did they do with
Leon right the the reality is that there
are so many things they're going to move
the needle
that you want to do all of those things
first don't take the easy out
don't just click apply do everything do
The Hit List truly reaching out do the
the the the the the work that's going to
actually move the needle to to not have
your resume just be in a stack of things
that never get read
and when did you do everything right
you've opened all the doors clicking
apply is probably one of those doors
I was at an online career fair yesterday
and a few recruiters said just to play
on our website
yeah that's gonna be that's gonna be
common from from recruiters that are
doing those like Mass
like they're they're there to talk to
millions of people uh they're not there
to build a relationship with you that's
the wrong person to build a relationship
with at that company right recruiters
aren't always the best people to talk to
uh that's why if you watched our class
on how to get the job it was talk to the
recruiter talk to an engineer on the
team talk to the engineering manager
hiring manager and talk to their mama
right because a lot of times the
recruiters are like they're just
inundated with thousands of
relationships and you won't be special
to them
cool
all right
I'm gonna say it one more time the top
of my
top of my chest here prep and methods
and brute force is all you need
one more time
prep
methods and brute force is all that you
need to get a job if you can prep your
way through a technical interview you're
talking about the parameters the returns
the examples the pseudo code you're
setting up your test cases you're
building that nice communication with
your interviewer you're you're slipping
in a few jokes as you're doing it you're
trying to have fun during an interview
try and have fun during an interview
right you're building that relationship
with them throughout the interview you
know your method's cold that's going to
open up so many questions if you just
know all your string Methods all your
array methods all your object methods
you know the things that can turn a
tricky question into an easy dub it's
gonna it's gonna be one of the biggest
doors you can open I have seen so many
coding challenges that could have been
solved just with a few methods if you
knew what you if you had just studied
them but if you've put them into your
Anki and you had studied them that you
knew them that you had done code Wars
with them you had done practice problems
with them if you had done huntober with
them and each problem that we do during
October should go into your inkies that
when you see it or something very close
to it you know what to do
so if you prep you know your methods
please please please if you haven't
studied your methods this is me begging
you to study your methods because I see
so many interviews that if they just do
their methods they would have slam
dunked it and then Brute Force meaning
that you're just using variables
conditionals Loops right and functions
to solve a problem you might have to
think through it you might have to it's
not gonna be it's not gonna be pretty
it's it's not going to be optimal it's
not going to be the most beautiful code
but if you do prep you get the Brute
Force that's often enough you can always
say hey we ran out of time let me send
you the optimal solution via email right
after this call
I'm a flex if you want a Fang job you
better be able to solve a two-leak code
mediums or Elite code easy and hard in
45 minutes that's how Facebook
interviews go yeah we don't want to work
at Fang
I'm gonna tie me out for a little bit
there you go don't be a code weenie
we know this
we know this we don't care about Fang
there are so many other companies that
pay well
there are so many other companies
that will give you amazing benefits
that will
give you a better experience as an
entry-level engineer
that if you focus on Fang
you're missing the point
and this is the sad reality
right this is the sad reality of
interviewing
this is one point in time
where people
take advantage of your fear
and it's really really really [__] up
right
people will say if you don't do this
course
you're not going to get a job they sell
a dream of fang so that you have to leak
code your eyeballs out
right
there is a completely different way
if you want to go to Fang Shore that
that's that's your prerogative do it
please
go go go Elite code into your eyeballs
fall out
I want folks to get jobs
I'd rather you get paid
right I'd rather you get paid
continue to learn
and in that year
build up the muscle to then go to Fang
if that's what you want
I've literally sent
two dozen people to fang over the last
two years
like that were directly in my programs
have very good relationships with a lot
of fan companies right an Untold number
of folks to Fang
but I wish
you wouldn't focus on it
I hope that you find a local company
that pays well that treats you well that
gives you great benefits that gives you
the work-life balance that you're
looking for
right
and that just because uh a YouTuber told
you you needed a course or this is what
you should be focusing on or sold you on
this dream of Untold riches
I don't need it right now
right you don't need it right now that
could be a goal for a year or two from
now so many folks will just get caught
up in this cycle of studying for
something that is a long shot
right it's the same thing as somebody
saying hey Leon I am going to practice
baseball every day because I want to go
play for the Yankees
great don't let me stop you you do you
you swing that bat every day you catch
those balls every day I really hope you
make it to the Yankees
right and then somebody sells them a
course on YouTube Hey use this course to
to learn how to throw better to swing
better and you too can can can play for
the Yankees
it's just it's just a weird system to
get caught up in and so I I I I say this
as a
as a word of caution
at this point in program people are
going to play on your fears they're
going to play on your desires be careful
right be careful
you don't need another course
data structures and algorithms there are
so many amazing resources that are
absolutely free
primes course that I shared absolutely
free
front end Mentor has another absolutely
free algorithms course that I'm going to
assign as well
right the the course I'm giving you is
we're using the Wayback machine but
completely free
right
don't buy into these fears don't buy
into these folks selling a dream
do the things that you know that you
need to do to get ready for the
interviews that you're about to face and
if you want to get ready for Fang
by all means go ahead and do it that's
not that's not my goal for y'all that's
that's not what I think a lot of folks
should be focusing on right now
so many other amazing opportunities that
you could focus on that are that are
that are a way easier reach
and then if you want to to then continue
on by all means do it
and this is how many people from at
Amazon do we have from 100 devs now it's
kind of ridiculous
right
but at this point yeah don't overwhelm
yourself
right don't overwhelm yourself keep
doing the the things that you know you
should be doing you're Banky
your coding challenge each day
making sure you're building out your Hit
List these are all things are going to
move the needle way more than Lee
coating your eyeballs out
[Laughter]
cool
it's all you need
it's legitimately
all you need
cool
uh and I'm gonna show these again
because I think it's I think it's just
beautiful to say I had a coffee chat
it's told they had so many applicants
with empty githubs no portfolio sites
and no projects underneath their belt
these are the folks that are just
clicking apply if you've done this
program you have Untold number of
projects you have an amazing portfolio
you have a well manicured LinkedIn you
have a great GitHub you have all those
juicy green squares you have uh a coding
challenge you've literally done every
single day for the past couple months
you have a hundred hours project that's
your own full stack project
that you've built uh from beginning to
end you have real clients that you've
worked with real experience it's on your
resume right
right
all these things
are going to help you stand out during
the process because I can't tell you how
many folks don't do all this stuff that
help you pass the sniff test thinking
thinking that if they're just really
really really really good at technical
interviewing that'll be enough it won't
you'll smell like a boot camper you
won't get past the final interview
cool
and then there are dozens of these
examples in our celebrations Channel
there was no technical assessment I just
told them about the projects I had
worked on and made sure I was friendly
connected with them as people I know
there are lots of people here that are
better coders than me this is absolutely
possible you can do this Don't Stop
Believing stay consistent it will happen
all right imagine if you believed
that you had to be able to do leak code
mediums to get a job imagine if you
waited
until you were a beast at least code to
get a job
that to me is the saddest thing and I
see it all the time I see so many folks
that decide to just invest in doing leak
code more and more and more because it's
it's easy
it's easy it feels like progress
each day you're doing something I'm
getting better at my data structures and
algorithms it's it just feels like
you're you're moving the a little bit
closer to the goal
when there are so many other things we
talked about they're going to actually
get you closer to the goal the coding
challenges are one bit but it's not the
only door you need to be opening
plan out your days
make sure you're not just focusing on
the coding challenges so many folks have
gotten jobs and the coding the technical
interviewing which is a tiny piece
just a small bit
be wary of what you're folk over
focusing on uh and and do the things
that are going to actually move the
needle building out your Hit List
reaching out to real individuals you can
get an actual referral to is the primary
thing that's going to move the needle
for you everything else is extra
I have a forward commitment in February
how should I address this with my
interviewer you don't once you get the
offer you bring that up while you're
negotiating your offer
cool
uh you know what else feels like
progress but is absolutely not buying a
course
we get that sweet sweet sweet dopamine
hit when we buy the course that we think
is going to help us get better at
interviewing uh and then we don't do it
so don't get got literally the best
courses on data structures and
algorithms are all free I'm sharing them
with you here and on Discord uh these
things are not real things that'll move
the needle
all right
uh
and if anything you didn't hear from me
[Laughter]
I'm a flex I I know I was kind of
messing with you I appreciate you saying
that I agree with you I worked on tons
of startups myself because I didn't want
to deal with Lee code before most of
them were Project based or languages
didn't realize demographic of the stream
hey no no worries it was I I thought you
were playing because of the the day Mama
flex but uh yeah we we have a we have a
Meme here where we don't like our
flexasauruses or our code weenies so I
appreciate you saying that thank you for
being here
all right at the end of the day you
don't believe me we brought in Daddy
Yankee themselves working at one of LA's
hottest startups
they built a [__] button
that was their coding challenge to build
a button
no JavaScript no node no react no coding
challenge no data structures no
algorithms a [__] button
with that let's take a break when we get
back we move into data structures and
algorithms that you don't need to get a
job but it's good to open all the doors
possible all right uh surge nine put put
two more minutes on the timer if you're
new around these parts we like to take a
break at the top of the hour we like to
make sure that if you're able that you
get up move around hydrate
take care of yourself
the hunt
is a long grueling process make sure
you're taking care of yourself I put
seven minutes on the timer I'm gonna run
the ads and you folks don't want to sit
through them
and I will see you all very shortly
we're gonna get into these wonderful
data structures and algorithms a gentle
introduction the data structures and
algorithms and then we'll have more time
to go deeper with it don't let me tell
you what to do not to do I'm going to
show you how I think it's best to play
the game each and you each and every
single person has to figure out what the
things they're going to use to help them
in their personal hunt what their end
goals are what their objectives are and
I hope that I can share enough that you
have a rough idea how to go forward but
it's your game to be played I'm going to
tell you how I think it should be played
but it's up to you to figure out how you
want to play it and the last thing I
really want to say on this before we
move on is that
uh you you can't lose a job that you
don't already have
right so many folks go into the hunt
with these anxieties and these pressures
on themselves
there's nothing you can do
gonna make you lose a job that you don't
already have
right so get in there find what works
find what doesn't work for you uh don't
be afraid to mess up there will always
be other interviews there will always be
other places that you can find uh to get
interviews with
take that anxiety off your shoulders as
much as possible don't let your dreams
be dreams
all right
let's talk about some data structures
and algorithms now what I'm about to
cover is going to make the Nerds angry
it's going to have them quaking in their
boots none of this is meant to be a
comprehensive data structures and
algorithms course it's meant to give you
the things that you should be thinking
about and some ideas that I need
percolating in your brain uh your
homework is the scotch I O course and
then we will have a full other data
structures and algorithms course I'm
going to have you work through plus our
daily stand-ups during October so
the goal today is to get a primer on the
things that you should be caring about
thinking about and then as you complete
the homework over the weekend it'll
solidify a lot of those Concepts we're
going to come back on Tuesday
we're going to go deeper with Big O
notation have more examples to help
drive home these these points and then
it's gonna be something you're going to
start incorporating into your daily
coding challenges so everyone should be
doing a coding challenge today whether
it's code Wars or Elite code whatever
you're doing you're already prepping
through those questions now you're going
to add this last layer of optimization
and thinking critically about the code
that you wrote and is it optimal
cool
so we talk about data structures and
algorithms let's just get some quick
things off the table when I say
algorithm all I really mean is just the
steps that you are taking to solve a
problem
that's it
there are many ways to solve problems an
algorithms just a certain number of
steps that you're going to take to solve
a problem now most of the time when
we're talking about algorithms like for
the purpose of our coding challenges and
things like that I'm just really kind of
talking about a function and and that's
kind of it a function that has some
steps that we're going to follow to to
solve a problem
and and that's kind of that's it
now this function or this algorithm
is going to transform some input
which I'm going to call a data structure
into a certain output that'll probably
be either the same or another data
structure
and when I say data structure I'm just
talking about the way that we
form our data you've been using a bunch
of different data structures throughout
our entire time we just never really
called them that we've been using
objects we've used these different
things that hold our data or the way
that we structure our data throughout
our entire program so we're going to
have different data structures we're
going to be using different things that
enable us to
uh work through our code critically but
when I say algorithm right when I say
algorithm I am just talking about the
steps you take to solve a problem when I
say algorithm I'm really just in this
point talking about a function and this
function is going to transform data from
an input of one data structure to a
certain output that is another data
structure throughout our time together
we'll look at things like uh we've
already seen things like cues and stacks
when we did our our our our event loop
we're going to look at things like heaps
and linked lists and all these other
ways to structure our data
um but we're going to get to that in
time
all right the function that is our
algorithm contains the logic that
decides how we transform our input to
our output
right
that that that figures out how we take
this thing that we're putting in and how
we get this thing that we're taking out
and to really kind of put a conceptual
framework behind this uh because it's
one thing just to say like data
structures but then to like actually
think about like what a data structure
might be it's kind of like a jump that
we have to make so give me the chance to
to make that jump
all right
I like to think about when I'm learning
about data structures and algorithms I
like to think about a library
right I like to think of a library and
this example comes from Scotch IO I
always thought this was the best primer
on data structures and algorithms uh
that was ever out there
um
they took it down when they were
acquired but it's still on the way back
machine and I really like this example
because it gives us something think like
physical that most of us probably have
experienced then we can tie these like
kind of ambiguous Concepts too so
uh a library contains many different
data structures books magazines CDs DVDs
Blu-rays uh when I was in Boston our
libraries were lit because they had like
video games too like you could go get
like 3DS games and and and and other
like video game stuff which is always
pretty cool
right so a library contains a lot of
data
and that data is structured in many
different ways we can have data that's
represented as a book we can have data
that's represented as a magazine we can
have data that's represented as a CD we
have data represented as a DVD we have
data represented as a Blu-ray
lots of different data represented in
different data structures in this case
our different data structures would be
these different objects the books the
magazines the CDs the DVDs the Blu-rays
now if your data is just a bunch of text
it makes sense to use a book to hold
that data
right let's think about that if we have
our data and our data is just a bunch of
text
right
did it make sense that we would use a
book to store that data however
if our data was a bunch of let's say low
quality video it would make sense to use
a DVD to hold that data
so there are
better ways to hold different types of
data could we
put our book on a DVD yes and can we
break down our videos into individual
frames to put in a book yes but we
wouldn't be using the appropriate data
structure for that data like it just
wouldn't make sense for video to be in a
book and for a text to be on a DVD
uh
so as we start to evaluate our data
we'll think about the different data
structures that might be appropriate
right then there are some other things
we might start thinking about as we
start to evaluate the right data
structure as well so DVDs have a limit
on the amount of data they can hold they
are cheaper but they are constrained
when compared to Blu-rays Blu-rays can
hold more data but they cost more
so if you have a bunch of video you
could use a DVD to hold that they are
cheaper but you might run out of space
whereas Blu-rays
can hold more data you have more space
but they cost a little bit more
now
when we're worrying about real data and
its cost we're not really really talking
about like the monetary cost like a DVD
being cheaper than a Blu-ray
right
the cost when we're worrying about our
code and the data that we're
representing in our code comes down to
two things space and time
Space is really just the amount of
memory that this structure is going to
take up and time is how long does it
take us to get done the things that we
want to get done and this works this
comes into play with our data structures
and it also comes into play with our
algorithms as we start to evaluate
different structures as we start to
evaluate
different algorithms we're going to keep
our mind on the cost
not the monetary cost but how much
memory will it use and how much time
will it take up
um I like to think of a very common data
structure that comes up and interviews
all the time and that's a linked list
versus a doubly linked list this is a
quick
post check uh if you've heard of a
linked list before just throw like an
emoji or an emote inside of chat for me
just kind of see where folks are at
throw something in the chat okay
might have run into it in your code war
is your Elite code when I started doing
the uh the instructions algorithm
homework already cool
so we have uh a linked list up here on
the top and a doubly linked list here on
the bottom
now something interesting about a linked
list is that it uses way less memory but
it is less efficient why why would I say
linked list is a little bit less
efficient than a than a than a doubly
linked list
it's one way exactly a linked list
literally takes up less memory but we
can only go one way now a doubly linked
list uh takes up more memory but it's
more efficient because we can go both
ways
right so if you were ever in a situation
where you only needed to go that one way
you would be better served using a
linked list as opposed to a doubly
linked list that would take up more
space so these are all the
considerations that we need to start
making to make good decisions as an
engineer we need to understand the
different structures for our data and
the implications it has for how our code
takes up space how it takes up time how
it will impact the things that we are
trying to do and so we are going to
learn a bunch of different data
structures that
are important to have memorized are
important to have in your brain but it
just helps us make better decisions
right that that's the whole point that
we're trying to do the whole point about
learning data structures and algorithms
is to just be able to make better
decisions now like I said
you can get away with most of your
coding challenges
right with just knowing methods
and just brute forcing your way through
these problems
what we saw on Tuesday
that
I was able to solve a problem using
nested for loops and while it worked
I don't think that was the best
engineering decision that I could have
made there was definitely a way to
optimize that code right to make it
better in terms of the cost that we care
about in terms of
space
and time
so
that's the point of what we're trying to
do here is that we're going to start
learning these things that make more
sense that enable us to make better
decisions that enable us to think
critically about our code and in the end
write more optimal code now the reason
why I tell you all to learn your methods
first
is because the methods
someone's already done the heavy lifting
for you
pretty much all the methods that you're
going to use uh in JavaScript right
depending on where they're implemented
because each browser can technically
implement the methods a little bit
differently but somebody's already
thought through how to do it the most
optimal way
right like if you look at the code
underlying those methods they're using
the best data structures the best
algorithms like everything that could be
done to optimize that code so by using
the methods you're probably already
using the optimal stuff right and so
that's why I select the folks to start
there one of the things that you might
do
right one of the things you might do is
I often will just look up the runtime or
the what we'll eventually look up the
the the runtime complexity or the time
complexity of those methods and I just
have them in my Inky so when I'm in an
interview and someone says like oh you
use this method do you know how optimal
your code is boom yeah I've already
looked this up it's already been in my
Anki from bumps every time I look at
that method I also know the the amount
of time that it's taking up so what
we're going to do now is we're going to
look at ways to make better decisions
the things that we should be thinking
about and through our stand-ups I'm
going to expose you to a lot of these
data structures through stand up so I'm
algorithms and it'll also be in the
homeworks that you have assigned as well
so
to kind of visualize some of this and
start to Think Through how we can make
better decisions uh let's go back to the
library
not hard to have fun when you have a
library card folks
how am I looking up um I I stack
Overflow
uh like if you if you like if you just
look up like time complexity of a method
uh there's always a stack Overflow post
on on it with somebody that'll pull up
like the actual like like Equis script
specification or like the V8 engine like
specification for it uh that's that's
how I find most of them the real code
weenies exactly you know you need code
weenies every once in a while
cool
let's go back to the library uh
the best data structures consume minimal
resources while storing the data in a
meaningful way for various operations
what
let's think about this again the best
data structure typically when you're
making decisions on what data structures
to use the way you're going to say that
was the best data structure is because
it's going to consume the least
resources to store the data in a
meaningful way
the meaningful way is the the the the
the really important bit here because we
could have a data structure that's more
optimal but if you can't do the things
you want to do with it it doesn't make
sense to use it
all right so let's talk about that
let's talk about a flip book versus a
DVD
right
we could print out our video frame by
frame into a flip book
right it would work
the data structure would store our video
frame by frame in a book and if we
wanted to we could sit there and flip it
and see the the video happen right or we
could store our video on a DVD now there
are some considerations to make here uh
what's using less resources
right and can we use the data in a
meaningful way
if we know that we're going to use the
data to take screenshots of our videos
flipbook might be better
right
but if we know we're going to watch the
video
then the DVD is probably better
all right liquid words hey how you doing
so when we're evaluating these different
structures for our data a flip book
versus a DVD we have to evaluate all
right what is what is the how am I going
to use the data right it's not always
just this is a more optimal data
structure we'll I'm going to use this
structure
because this is what I want to do with
that data
all right
good brings up a good point if I want
audio then flipbook that data structure
is out the window there's no audio with
a flipbook so if I want to be able to
listen then that cuts off that data
structure immediately
so it's not just about optimization it's
about how we're going to actually use
the data that we are storing
cool
all right I want to ask a question here
we're in a library
and I want a specific book
what could I do
to get a specific book I want us to come
up with an algorithm right I'm going to
give you a data structure
uh that's holding a string a name of a
book
and what I want as the result of this
algorithm is the actual book so I'm
going to give you a title or the name of
the book and you're gonna give me the
actual book now we're in the library
what is our algorithm I have given you a
string and I want a book back what could
I do to go and find the book that I've
just given you
my my algorithm is ask the library use
the card catalog uh look it up there's a
lot of things that we could do
but let's let's let's let's think about
how we can simplify this for a second
I could walk into the library
and realistically
I could check every book
right I walk into the Boston Public
Library main branch I don't know how
many floors they have probably million
plus books right
I could start with the first book that I
see
and check every single book
right I could check every single book I
could just go in in order
until I find it
would I eventually find the book that I
was looking for
let's say the book does exist that it's
in the library
yes you might die first but yes
eventually two three days later I might
find the book
all right we're assuming that it's there
that it's not checked out yes we would
eventually find the book
a
more
optimal way
for finding a book
absolutely
there's a Dewey Decimal System there's
sorting there's there's ways to look it
up so we use algorithms every day of Our
Lives we use data structures every day
of our lives whenever I start talking
about data structures and algorithms it
can feel scary
right you already use these different
structures for your data all the time if
you've ever been to a library a book
with a data structure for your textual
data
textual that just sounds
you you already knew how to handle your
textual data right it could be in a book
right
right it could be in a book you you
already know how to handle your your
your video data right that could be in a
in a in a DVD right you're already used
to
accurately picking the right data
structure for the data that you care
about in the way that you're going to
use it right if you know that you are
going to
want to see all the text right you're
going to want all that textual
that textual data right then it's
probably going to be a book
but if you want
video it makes sense to go for the for
the DVD or the Blu-Ray so you already
know how to choose the right data
structure for the task at hand you do it
all the time
when it comes to code there are these
data structures we have to learn heaps
we saw cues we saw Stacks already we're
going to see these different types of
lists we're gonna see all these things
that we're going to pick up over time
right
but you already know how to use data
structures not just using data
structures
relating to your code now you also
already used algorithms all the time
none of you would walk into the library
and go all right I'm going to start with
book one and I'm going to go linearly
through all of the books until I find
the book that I won
right you're going to find that book you
want
if you find it finally get your uh
textual healing textual
healing you find the book right but none
of us walk into the library and and go
through all the books until we find it
we have a better algorithm
to find the books that we want
right we we know that we can we know
that the books are sorted already
we know that we can go to a specific
area where that book might exist we know
that we can go to the librarian and get
the book that we want so we already know
how to use algorithms and you already
know how to evaluate the complexity of
those algorithms you know intrinsically
that checking every book would take too
much damn time
so it's gonna be the same thing when it
comes to your code they're going to be
certain ways that when you write your
code and you look at your code you're
going to be like that's taking too much
damn time there's a way that I can do
this more efficiently that I could do
less and get the thing I want faster
all right
if we were to do it book by book it
would take us a lot of time to move
through each book but there are also
other concerns too like
did we already go through that row
right did we already go through that
road do we remember all the rows that
we've already been to
it's a lot
uh so I'm gonna ask you
what do you think would be the most
efficient way to find your book
what's what's the algorithm that you
would use to find the specific book
what are you gonna do
ask Bob
Library ask the librarian the hash map
it's always hashed map the answer is
always hashmap you ever stuck hashmap
uh
ask the librarian cry in the corner
until somebody comes and helps you
uh use the Dewey Decimal System
does that still exist
uh look uh identify the Dewey Decimal
number locate the position in the
library based on that
I think there's a whole like we're
thinking like that like oh my gosh
and too old
I just think that like
there's no way in hell
there's no way in hell that by the time
my child is old enough to like really
go to the library
that they're using the Dewey Decimal
System there's gonna be an app on their
phone
right and they're gonna type in it and
it's gonna be like go here right
it works I just don't know like will it
exist still like it will be a lost art
exactly will there be a new library meta
will there just be QR codes like I don't
know right we'll still be there will
there just be air tags in each book I
don't know
foreign
I just did a coding challenge for an
interview they told me the structure
they wanted the answer in they didn't
just care about the right answer this
matters it really does
cool
so yeah so there's there's a lot of
different algorithms that we could come
up with to find our book using the
librarian using the Dewey Decimal System
going linearly through each book
right asking someone to go find it for
you paying I was gonna say don't do this
it's like pay the kid in the children's
section to go find your book no please
don't do that
um now how long it takes to find our
book is our time complexity
right
is our time complexity uh
searching each book by book would
probably have one of the greatest time
complexities uh
asking the kid that doesn't know how to
use the Dewey Decimal System to go find
your book might actually be longer in
terms like less efficient in terms of
time capacity it might take them longer
because they get lost they go home with
their parents and you don't see them
until next weekend so that might be an
even less efficient system and now they
have money they just went to the gift
shop or the the cafe or whatever
right
so these different algorithms and how
long it takes to find the book would be
our time complexity right we could go
book by book that would be a long time
using the librarian might be a little
bit faster using Dewey justice system
might be a little bit faster right so
there there is there is
how long it takes to find our book we
would consider our time complexity and
so thinking through the appropriate data
structures do I want to book do I want a
DVD do I want a Blu-ray and the
appropriate algorithm I'm going to go
book by book am I going to use the
librarian is how we can efficiently
solve problems
and yes these are silly examples yes
we're talking about books and libraries
and things like that but it is the same
process when it comes to our code
how are we going to structure our data
in a meaningful way
so that we can do the things that we
want to do with it
and what is the algorithm the steps that
we're going to take to solve the problem
and is there a way to do it with less
steps
to do it more efficiently these are the
concerns that is as Engineers we need to
start thinking about
we need to start bringing these concerns
to the code that we write every day and
then to the code that we especially
write for our coding challenges now I
bring up the word Effectiveness and so
when we're talking about the
effectiveness or the complexity of a
solution
we're going to use something called Big
O notation
O notation and so all Big O notation is
is a way of mathematically describing
the complexity of your algorithm in
terms of space and time
now these are a lot of big words you can
treat them as disrespect but all it is
is a handy reference to say all right
this is how long I think this is going
to take and this is how much room or
space in terms of memory I think this is
going to pick up and so it's not really
like we don't really have to know math
here don't don't let that get you scared
it's just a way for us to be able to
talk about the different complexities
that we are running into and for us to
talk with other Engineers about how we
might make our code more efficient
so there are a few common complexities
that we're going to start off with and
I'm just going to very much skim the
surface here this is just to get these
ideas in our brain
to get them top of what we're thinking
about so that as we start to write our
coding challenges throughout October as
you continue to do your code Wars and
your Elite codes these things to be at
the top of your brain I want you to let
them marinate over the weekend I want
you to do the data structures and
algorithm homework over the weekend and
we come back Tuesday we'll go deeper
we'll go deeper with our Big O notation
so
here are
three I'm only going to focus on three
common complexities
of one or constant time
o of n or linear and N squared or some
people call it quadratic right these are
the complexities that I'm going to focus
on tonight and I'm going to walk through
uh where we might see them we're going
to talk through some examples and we'll
end it there so you have maybe it will
end a little early maybe you'll get the
chance to maybe start jumping into that
homework and see these in play so
when we're evaluating kind of our our
algorithms or we're evaluating the
efficiency of our code right
right that's the first time I see
somebody do that the we don't with the
End early
code when he's really sweating right now
they are they they can't they're just
they're just trying to chomping at the
bit like I said this is an easy
introduction this is not like the
end-all be-all right
well
cool
isn't that the end-all be-all
right
here we go
I want to start
thinking through
the number of inputs versus the number
of operations that my code would have to
use
so
the first thing I want to think about in
terms of inputs and operations is let's
think of an array
so you can think about this chart as
showing the number of inputs increasing
and the number of operations increasing
as well
so with an array
let's say I had the numbers
one two
three
four and five in my array
right
if I wanted the first number out of my
array how could I get the first number
out of this array
I want the first number out of this
array
yeah I could use the zero index I could
do array
and use the zero index
how many operations did I have to
perform to get the first number out of
my array
one operation
what if I added
a million inputs to my array what if my
array now doesn't stop at five but it
goes all the way
to one
million
all right that's where my array goes now
does it change anything
nope
so this is an example of constant time
no matter how many inputs I have as part
of my array
accessing let's say the first
the first element in the array it never
changes like accessing an element based
off of its index will always just be one
operation no matter how many inputs
there may be what if I wanted the last
if I wanted the last value
in an array
it's still just one operation right we
could do it's gonna be a little fancier
looking array
we'll do array
dot length
minus one
right it's still one operation
all right
right
still one operation
right so we can say that accessing
an element
right accessing an element in an array
by its index happens in
constant time or o of one no matter how
many inputs we have
right no matter how many inputs we have
the number of operations will always
stay the same
now
let's think about our library example
I
want to
find my book in the library
right I want to find my book in the
library
right now the library has
a million books
right my library has a million books in
it
Big Daddy Gates rolls through
and you know what donates a million more
books
all right donates an another million
so my inputs went from a million
to 2 million
if I am going
if I am going to go book by book
my potential operations just what
doubled yeah they just doubled for each
book I added I added a potential
operation if I am going book by book
right if I am going book by book
my
number of operations are going up
linearly
right they're going up linearly each
each input means that there could
potentially be another operation
so we call this
linear
or o of n
in this case for each input I might have
to do another operation so if the
algorithm I was following was to check
and try and find my book book by book
right book by book right
there might be a worst case scenario
where my book is the last book in the
library right and as I added an input I
also added a potential operation
cool
yeah exactly worst case scenario now
something interesting is that we'll get
to not today but you'll see that there
are some instances where linear
complexity seems like it's better than
constant time or there's like these
other ones like logarithmic and even
quadratic there seems to be some
instances where like linear might be a
little bit better but that doesn't seem
right like constant times always one
operation right but that linear when
when would this linear algorithm pay off
like when would this linear algorithm
where each book I add adds another
operation and k aka another book I have
to check
when when would this might pay off
small stuff
there's only one book in the library Yee
I got it right or if it's the first book
I check right small input sizes getting
lucky with being at the first book like
there are some things we could think
about uh later on and we'll get to this
on Tuesday right where in smaller sets
of data things get a little weird but
we're talking about the Long Haul here
we're talking big picture right we're
talking big picture right talking worst
case scenario as we add another book
we're adding another potential operation
now the last thing that I want to talk
about today and then we're going to
break all these down
is this N squared
we saw an example uh on Tuesday
uh a Time complexity that's N squared
what was that that what was that thing
that we saw that was a
complexity of N squared
yeah it was the nested for Loops so we
had nested for Loops that were trying to
find
um
that we're trying to find uh Matt it was
matching numbers right trying to find
the the the the matching numbers or
sorry the numbers that added up to a
Target value
and so what we had to do
was we had an array of numbers
right we had one two three four five we
have an array of numbers and what we
were trying to do was find which two
numbers equaled
I don't know let's do let's add six here
too a little easier what two numbers
added up to 11.
all right what two numbers added up to
11. and so we had these two nested for
Loops where the first Loop was grabbing
a number right the first for Loop was
grabbing a number from the array and
then the internal for Loop was comparing
that number to every other number
in the array
and if it didn't find anything
then it moved on to the next number so
this would do if we were actually to run
out this this two sum code we would pick
the number one
and then we would do one plus one
doesn't equal eleven one plus two
doesn't equal eleven one plus three
doesn't equal eleven one plus four
doesn't equal eleven one plus five
doesn't equal eleven one plus six
doesn't equal eleven and then our
outside Loop
would go up to the next number but our
internal Loop still had to do two plus
one doesn't equal eleven two plus two
doesn't equal eleven two plus two
doesn't equal eleven two plus four
doesn't equal eleven two plus five
doesn't equal eleven two plus six
doesn't equal 11. and then we had to go
to the next number so for every number
on the outside Loop the inside loop had
to do it
all those times so think about the
danger of adding a single input
if we make this go from six to seven how
many more operations do we need to do
because now this internal Loop also has
seven so we add one input and we have at
least
what at least one two three four five
six seven seven more operations
right with just one
singular input addition this internal
Loop has to do so much more work as we
add a singular input we can see our time
complexity almost becoming exponential
and I'm using that word very very
Loosely here right
that you could see this just how
aggressively we're going to be adding
operations for each input that we add
right with a linear complexity a little
bit different each input we add now we
just went up one operation another input
another operation but with a with a with
a quadratic or N squared complexity
boom through the roof two inputs and
we're we're we're adding so many
so many more
operations
so that's where these complexities come
into play we can start to look at our
code and think through all right
does anything change when I add more
inputs does it stay constant
right
if I add one input
and I only get one operation does it
continue that way linearly
and if I ever find myself in a situation
where I'm adding one input and I'm just
getting
exponentially more operations I need to
pause and think to myself is there a way
to do this more optimally right so
that's where we want to get we want to
be able to evaluate the code that we're
writing in terms of these complexities
so we can write more efficient code not
only for ourselves but also in technical
interviews during our interviews you're
going to solve a problem and one of the
common questions your interviewer might
ask is this the optimal solution and if
you looked at our solution from Tuesday
you would say no this solution seems
like it's nested for Loops this looks
like it's it's N squared there there
probably will be a way to make this more
optimal so when
we come back from our break we're going
to dive deeper into these different
complexities I'm going to show you some
examples of constant time I'm going to
show you some examples of linear time
I'm going to show you some examples of
our N squared or quadratic time and
we're going to get a little more
comfortable with them and then we'll
stop for the evening we'll let these
things percolate in our brains over the
weekend you'll have some homework to
work on over the weekend that puts these
into practice and we come back on
Tuesday
we'll go deeper and we'll add a bunch of
other complexities to the list but the
idea here
right the idea here is that we are
moving into this world where it's no
longer just about writing our code it's
about writing our code optimally it's
about choosing the structures for our
data that do the things we need it to do
and the algorithms that get the job done
efficiently
cool
uh how can we do the two array numbers
more efficiently uh that's a hash map
which we'll get to later this month
we can't be baddies no more exactly we
got to be efficient baddies bye Tina no
Tina's always a part of us
yeah cool all right let's uh take our
break five minutes on the clock here all
right
so let's see some of these examples and
the trick that changed my life
alrighty so we talked about oh one
already o of one you might hear some
people refer to it as order one if
you're really like a code weenie uh but
more often it's called constant time uh
for all the inputs in our algorithm
there will always ever be one operation
required so no matter how many inputs we
put in uh our algorithm will only
require one operation like the steps
we're going to take will be one step
oh
so here is an example where we have an
array of numbers and when we want to get
a specific number out of that array like
we have we have the the the we want to
get the first number out of the array or
the last number out of the array we know
we can use the index so one operation
right one operation and we can get that
number
all right so if we wanted to get the
first number out of the array we just do
nums zero
that would give us the first number if
we wanted the last number we could do
something like um
nums
nums dot length
minus one and that would also give us
the last number in the array so no
matter how many inputs we have we could
add a Million numbers to the array and
if we just wanted to get the first or
the last or a specific number based on
its index it would only ever be one
operation so those types of algorithms
where no matter how many inputs you have
coming in you're only doing one
operation we call those constant time of
one operations this is kind of where you
want to get a lot of your stuff too A
lot of times folks will ask you oh can
you do it in constant time can you do it
in O of one can you take something
that's quadratic and make it linear like
these are the things you might start
having as conversations with your cool
friends
alrighty the next that we saw was O of n
you might hear code weenies call it
order n linear is what you most often
hear it as so a linear complexity is
for all the inputs in our algorithm so
as we add more inputs we get one
operation per input so for each input we
get an operation input operation input
operation input operation and so that
linear
complexity uh we call O of n now
let's dig through an O of n an O of n
problem here
and then I'm going to show you the the
one weird trick
for all the singles in your area right
all right
here it is here's an O of n example we
have
arrays we have an array of numbers right
we have an array of numbers
and I want to sum
I want to sum all the numbers in the
array
right I want to sum all the numbers in
the array so if I have a linear solution
right if I have a linear solution the
linear solution to sumness would be to
Loop through the array
grab each number
and add that to my sum
so my array right now has five inputs
how many operations will this linear
solution require
five operations if there were a hundred
numbers in my array how many operations
would it take to find the sum
it would take a hundred so this is a
linear algorithm right this is a linear
algorithm for each input I add I add
another operation
right
right I add another operation
and so
just to kind of flay this out real quick
let's say our array was one
two three
we would go ahead and run this for Loop
the very first time it runs we grab the
first num which is one and we add that
one to our sum so our sum is now one the
next time it runs we grab the two
numbers two we add that 2 to our sum
which is now three and the last time
this runs it's three we grab that three
we add it to our sum now we're at six so
we had three numbers in our array we did
three operations
the one freaking place I could put the
sum is right behind my head
right
uh so for each number or each input we
had in our array we did one operation so
that's a linear algorithm one operation
per one input but are you ready
can you handle it you're ready to have
your mind blown your world turned upside
down what was real is no longer real
what was good is now bad what was
textual
is now factual
already
here is something people refer to as
gauss's theorem or gauss's trick uh
what it does is it says if you have an
array that meets some conditions right
Gauss is some yep if you have an array
that meets certain conditions in this
case what do we notice about our array
what do we notice about our array
it's sorted
it's continuous meaning it goes from one
to the next number without skipping
anything
right and it starts with one
so it starts with the number one
it's in in sorted order
it doesn't skip any values right it's
contiguous right so this is this array
is special
because it's already sorted it goes from
one to certain number no funny business
exactly but this is a pretty common
array that we might see
and so there's something really cool if
we were to do our linear solution
if we're gonna do the linear solution
that was O of n that we just learned how
many operations would it take to solve
this to get this sum
if I wanted to sum these numbers with
the O of n solution that we just did it
would take five operations you ready
let's take a look at this so here is a
function
and the function only performs one
operation
it just grabs the last input
that's it
it grabs the last input
and when you have the last input in an
array of numbers that starts with one is
continuous meaning that it goes from one
to the the last number doesn't skip
anything you can just grab the last
number so one operation
and then do this math trick with it you
take that last number
you add one to it you divide it by two
and you times it by the last number and
that gives you the sum
so let's go back to our easy array
one two
three we know our linear solution this
equals six let's try gauss's sum here
gauss's sum says take the last value
which is three
so we'll do three plus one which is four
4 divided by 2 gives us 2
times the last number
which was three gives us
the same sum of six
my mind broke when I learned this trick
so now
we have
away
of taking
a
what would be a normally reasonable
linear solution
but doing it in what type of time
o of one or constant
so
we could now
speed up this operation it's just it's
just night and day right like like you
went from having to do one operation
from every input to only having to do
one operation no matter how many inputs
there are
so this is an example of how we could
take something that was a linear
solution and by having deep like
algorithmic knowledge know that gauss's
sum or gauss's trick whatever you want
to call it
could do this in constant time
this is why people study algorithms
right this is why people study
algorithms it's not that they are coming
up with these Solutions on their own in
fact like coming up with like more
efficient algorithm is not really like a
thing that happens unless you're like
doing your PhD in the computer science
or math or something like that right
but what you are doing is memorizing a
lot of these algorithms right so that
when you encounter a similar problem you
know how to solve it in a more efficient
way
right so that that's the point here
right that's the point the point here is
that we're memorizing exactly we're
memorizing some
textual patterns here some algorithms so
that when these types of problems show
up again we know how to apply it
if you're in an interview
and someone asks you to sum an array of
numbers
even if it's not a contiguous or
um sordid array of numbers you can still
pepper this out and go oh you want me to
sum these numbers it'll be really cool
is if the numbers were all like if the
numbers were continuous and they were
sorted we could do this trick where this
linear solution is actually in constant
time can I show you real quick right and
then even if it wasn't the the actual
problem the interviewer might get
excited and then you get the job
right you get the job and so a lot of
these like these
algorithm I'm going to show you the
algorithms that are coming up in the
homework are so you can pull them out
during your interviews right you can
pull them out during your interviews and
and get to these Optimal Solutions but I
just want to make sure I'm very like
abundantly over clear this is not
something that I would expect you to
derive on your own it's something that
you memorize and that's why like you'll
see people that leak code their eyeballs
out uh and memorize a lot of these
algorithms to make their jobs easier
yeah
can you show us how to properly do math
on Abacus I do have my Abacus right
behind me
cool so I hope that this kind of starts
to make it click why these algorithms
might be important
right does that make sense now does it
make sense why choosing the right
algorithm the right data structure might
save you time and can help you write
more efficient code
cool
awesome
let's talk about the last one and that's
where we'll end for today
um committing these to memory like I
said is very important
this this gauss's sum should be in your
Anki deck for sure
these very simple linear complexities
these constant time examples should be
in your Anki deck for sure
you want to be able to start recognizing
these and as you start to solve your
coding challenges on code Wars or leak
code
take another second at the end of your
prep
right take another second at the end of
your prep to see all right is this
happening how many operations am I doing
here per input is this constant time is
this linear uh is this quadratic and
we're going to spend more time on
Tuesday doing exactly that I'm going to
give you some real world scenarios some
code scenarios where we'll sit back and
kind of reflect on all right what type
of time complexity is this and can I do
it better somebody said could I run the
math back again yeah so
um if we did this if we did this normal
array sum before right we had
uh one two three if we did the linear
sum
right if we did the linear sum what
we'll be doing is grabbing the one and
then adding it to the sum and grabbing
the two and adding it to the sum to make
this three then grabbing the three and
adding it to the sum to make it six
that would be three operations grabbing
this input grabbing this input and
grabbing this input three operations to
get the sum
but with gauss's trick or gauss's sum
all we do is grab this last input
and now we can use it for this three we
can use it in this little math value
here
so
three plus one is four four divided by
two is two two times three would give us
the exact same answer of 6 but we only
did one operation we only grabbed we
only grabbed one input out of that array
so what took us three operations before
is now only taking one because we know
this algorithm we know this gauss's sum
uh somebody some folks have been asking
this and I think it's a really good
question why doesn't this count as an
operation
uh because none of this is
do I have it no it's in the slides on
Tuesday uh none of this is like
exact right these are theoretical
complexities right we're not like
literally counting like line by line
we're saying all right as I add an input
are my operations going up right is this
all exactly approximations this is like
rough rough ideas these are these are a
theoretical concept that we're buying
into so that we can explain the
efficiency of our code we're we're not
really super focused on like oh 0.3
seconds or like it's exactly just that
one it's it's rough ideas of how we can
talk about what's happening in our in
our applications
mm-hmm
and even if yeah thank you team even if
we said you know what
this whole thing is in operation
this operation only runs once right like
if we just said this whole thing was in
operation right here we said both like
here we said this is an operation this
is an operation
right
do our operations
increase with the number of inputs
going up
so if
if I added right if I add it a million
inputs
and even if we counted this as two
operations right if we said
two one
we said two one right we said two one so
there's two operations and it stays two
no matter how many inputs we put in
that's still constant time and
technically what we'll get to on on
Tuesday is that you would reduce this
down
to O of one or just one
so it it even even if you counted it as
an actual operation it's still constant
right and then we boil them down to the
base notation that we're using of one
of N and squared exactly
am I wild for thinking data structures
and algorithms might actually be fun now
I think so this fundamentally broke my
brain
this is when it like that like I I
didn't understand and you might be
feeling the same way data starts not
only didn't make any sense to me like
why would I do this algorithms like why
would I invest time in like needing to
know this stuff and then I saw this and
I was like [__]
this could be useful
I could see myself maybe running into
some things where if I had more
knowledge I could do stuff more
efficiently and that's the beauty of I
think hunttober as we're doing these
daily stand-ups at first we're just
solving problems but once we get to like
hash maps and like some other fun data
structures some other fun algorithms
that we have in our back pocket things
that used to take an exponential amount
of time and I keep using that word very
Loosely we could do in constant times
sometimes like it's just it's just it's
just mind-blowing and then if you think
about the real implications this stuff
could have on your code basis like if
you can if you can have something in
your code base that goes from a linear
to a constant or a worse time complexity
to constant like that's that's game
changing uh so for me this is fun I love
learning algorithms uh I I love doing
leak code when I was grinding out Lee
code because I just it was a chance to
learn these really neat things I put
them into my Anki and over time you
start to develop this like sense for all
right this is the complexity and I know
that there's this thing I can use that
would make my job easier
uh the last one that we saw uh was
something that we call N squared and or
or quadratic some people might call it
it's where you have loops inside of a
loop that's like the easiest one there
are some Loops inside of Loops that
aren't technically N squared but
whenever you see a loop inside of a loop
your brain should start going wait a
minute
wait a minute Loop inside of a loop we
might be getting into a really
inefficient time complexity here right
in this case we are
uh trying to see if this if this array
has any duplicates right and so we have
a loop that's grabbing one number and
then comparing it to all the other
numbers inside so if we were to run
through this our outside for Loop is
going to start off with the number one
and our inside for Loop is going to grab
one two three
four five
stop me from writing my apple pencil
this die
five five right
uh and it's gonna check to make sure
that it's not the same number so it it
went from number one it didn't find
another one so then it moves on to two
and it's gonna do one two three four
five five does it find a duplicate right
then it moves on to three and it does
one two three four five five doesn't it
find a duplicate so then it goes on the
four one two three four five five
doesn't find a duplicate five finally
with five we get the one two three four
five but it was the same index that
doesn't count and then finally five we
find the duplicate so we had
five
inputs
but it took us five times one two three
four five twenty five
operations
right with the nested Loops we had five
inputs
but we did 25
operations right and if we had had more
in here we could have wound up doing way
more operations we had it like six and
we got to add six to all these lines
here
right so by adding one input we added at
least four more operations
right we had at least four more
operations and that's why the chart
looks like this
right for each input our amount of time
it's taking the amount of operations we
have to do is just skyrocketing
all right just skyrocketing
cool
I love data structures and algorithms
foreign
get the crew together we're doing
algorithms baby
all right uh so for homework uh your
first bit of homework this weekend where
I want you to start working through
these things is the scotch i o data
structures and algorithms course
um
you don't have to do it alone
jump on Discord
getting a voice Channel
start working through it
so data structures I kind of talked a
little bit about data structures last
last class and
um I gave a lot of like I I would say
weird examples right I said all right
think about books think about
DVDs think about Blu-rays right well I
actually like that because I think it's
a good way to think about data
structures a book can hold text right
and it's really good at going like page
by Page
it's easy to get to exactly where you
want to be right like I want to get to
page 100 boom you can jump to page 100
very easy to consume text-based content
however figure out how many books I
could fit on a Blu-ray right I have way
more space way more things I can do when
I'm using a Blu-ray but it might be
slightly harder to get to the exact text
that I want to get to and so
this idea of like data and the structure
of it we use in the real world all the
time like we have a concept of like all
right here's how I want to store data
and when I store data in this way I get
some quirks I get some features but I
get ways that I can use and manipulate
that data because of the structure I
have chosen
right I I can I if I if I store my
textual day oh
if I store my
textual data
in a book I get some things that I might
not get when I store it in a DVD
uh when I store something in a DVD I
might be able to to search through stuff
faster I might be able to uh hold more
right but we're used to storing data
organizing data and
it's something that we use every single
day so when it comes to our code it's
still kind of the same thing a data
structure is simply an organized way of
storing data
whether it's tax numbers right it's a
way that we're going to organize that
data
but when it comes to a data structure
the thing that you really kind of also
focus on
is
how it's collected and organized so that
you can perform different very different
operations on it correctly and
efficiently
like if I want to find a specific
sentence
is the book the best way to do it like
is that the best way to store and
organize my data if I am
if I am storing a video
I could have my video as a flip book is
that the best way to store my data to
get to a specific scene that I want to
watch or would a DVD make more sense to
store my video content
all right so this is a lot of big words
but why like like hold on
a data structure is simply an organized
way of storing data it's a pattern of
collecting and organizing data for
performing various operations correctly
and efficiently
but why like what what is the reason
like why does this play out why do we
like do this why is it even worth
thinking about this uh and I just want
to give you a very what I think is an
example that we might all feel
comfortable with having gone through
program
um if I wanted to store information
about a stock Trader like a person who
trades stocks
and I wanted to store information about
them
would it make sense to store their
information as an object or an array
chat is overwhelmingly saying an object
and so you've already know how to make
these data structure decisions you said
hey if I want to store information about
a stock Trader well then an object makes
the most sense because we know when it
comes to using objects we have key value
pairs right we can store first name we
can store last name we can store their
location their job title their years of
experience we could even have a data
structure inside of our data structure
right like recent trades
and it makes it so that we can get the
things that we want right we can get the
things that we want quickly right so if
I want to get their name I can just do
stock trader.firstname right if I want
to get their job title I can do stock
trader.job title right it kind of goes
back to this idea that it's a pattern of
collecting and organizing the data to
perform various operations correctly and
efficiently well if I want to store
information about
a stock Trader it makes sense to use an
object because I can access the data in
a way that makes sense
right
in a way that makes sense
I don't see total losses yeah we need to
add that
cool
so when you hear data structures I I
don't want you to get scared
right you've been using data structures
this whole time chat accurately picked
the best data structure for the problem
at hand and what you're going to do as
you go through the homework uh not only
the homework last week but the homework
that's assigned for this week is you're
just going to add more data structures
right you're going to add more data
structures to your
repertoire you're going to add more data
structures to your tool belt and these
different structures going to be usable
for certain types of data that you want
to store in a way that makes sense to
consume that data
so it's not just the data but it's the
way that you can access and organize the
data that makes up the data structure
when I think of a library I think of a
lot of different data structures because
I'm storing a lot of different types of
content I'm storing text inside of books
I'm storing video instead of Blu-rays
I'm storing
gaming data inside of a video game right
like we learn these data structures in
our day-to-day live it's not anything
different when it comes to our code
let's see another one
what if I wanted to store uh the stock
Traders recent Tesla purchase prices
right this stock Trader is trying to
accurately pick up Tesla stock at the
cheapest price and I just want to store
the prices at which they bought the
stock
does it make sense the store as an
object
or an array and chat overwhelmingly is
saying array right now because that
makes the most sense we are already used
to using data structures every single
day to solve our problems when it comes
to code an array makes the most sense
right we can have they bought it at 208
they bought it at 205 they bought it at
217 they bought it 222 220 right like
they they these are the price the the
purchase prices that they made now why
why
would an array make the most sense in
this case
could we technically have an object that
had the purchase prices
it's all the same key yep it's all the
same type
ease of access and memory that could be
a thing here
uh so we can sort it we can get the
average the the things that we want to
do at these prices
probably requires us to Loop through all
the prices to sort the prices to find
out which prices were the mid like all
the things that we'd want to do with
this type of data an array is in a way
more efficient data structure to do the
things that I want to do with this kind
of data right like if I want to sort it
I want to find the Min the max if I want
to find the average having it already in
an array is the better data structure
because it can do the things that I want
to do with that data
could I
have an object that had like price one
and then a price price two and the price
yes but it would still be harder to do
the things I wanted to do with that data
right like could I easily Loop through
it yes but then I'm doing things a
little bit more difficult I'm not going
to be able to do the things that I could
as quickly and efficiently do with an
array
and the cool thing is if I did want that
level of data exactly BSL I could have
an array of objects if I wanted that
level of detail right so I still get all
the benefits and so these are the things
that we start to think through when it
comes to data structures all right I
have this data that I want to organize
what is the best structure to organize
that data if I'm trying to organize
something about like a person an object
this makes sense right like I could have
their first name as a key value pair
last name is a key value pair if I want
to store the the price of their trades
it makes more sense to be an array
because I can do the things I want to do
with that data
easily
does that make sense why data structures
could be important like we're already
using them
right we're already using them but as we
add more data structures to our our tool
belt it becomes easier to organize and
work with the data that we run into
cool yeah Madeleine of trivia says Rivia
says we just need to pick the best one
exactly you just need to pick the best
one now how do you learn to pick the
best one you do your code Wars you do
your Elite codes and you come to
the boardroom
every Monday through Friday 6 PM Eastern
Time on Remo for stand up
because what we're going to do is at
first yeah we're just having some fun
solving some problems but quickly our
our days are going to turn into all
right here's the problem at hand
what data structure makes the most sense
for this problem at hand
at first we're we're doing really messy
stuff
at first we're doing things that that
work that were brute for us and we're
working our way up to Hash maps and
other fun data structures that we
haven't seen we're bringing stacks and
cues back into the mix we only saw them
very briefly when we were talking about
the event Loop so as we start to
progress and stand up we bring more of
these data structures into our
repertoire uh it'll be part of the
reading for those problems and it'll be
part of the problems that we're doing
and so you can slowly build up your
knowledge of these data structures and
feel more comfortable with them over
time could you do this on your own
absolutely you can keep doing your code
Wars you can keep doing your your Elite
codes and you'll build that up as well
what I'm doing with stand up is I've
Cherry Picked
quite a few that I think lead to that
natural progression where each one kind
of starts to build off the other
are the Remo rooms getting full now like
I said we've been hitting between like
five and six hundred there's a cap of
800. there you go
alrighty now those are data structures
we also talked about algorithms
and so an algorithm is simply the steps
you take to solve a problem
that's it
what steps are you going to take to
solve a problem uh they come together
because often if we're talking about
data
the data structure and how we store that
data might dictate kind of what type of
algorithm we use right to solve a
problem that's why they kind of come in
tandem but when you think of an
algorithm it's just the steps you're
taking to solve a problem and that is it
now
when we're thinking through appropriate
algorithms we're trying to think through
the efficiency of solving a problem so
when we have a problem at hand as we're
seeing our code Wars as we're seeing our
Elite codes as we're seeing real
problems on the job we can think through
different
steps we could take to solve the problem
and as we are thinking about those steps
it enables us to say all right the steps
I took in this solution is it as
efficient as the steps I'm taking in
this other
solution
and eventually what you start to realize
is that you can memorize quite a few of
these steps or these solutions to solve
common problems and so just like you can
build up your data structure knowledge
you can build up your algorithmic
knowledge right you can build up your
algorithmic knowledge where you're
you're you're figuring out all right in
terms of space and time how efficient
are the steps I took to solve that
problem and the cool thing is there are
a lot of algorithms that
solve or the steps they take to solve
that problem that are efficient in terms
of space and time so you can brute force
solutions which will get you there or
you can be exposed to these different
algorithms that someone has taken the
time to think through the space and time
complexity how much memory they're
taking up how long it takes to run in
terms of for each input how many
operations am I increasing
right
once again space just how much memory is
being used time how many operations are
executed per input right if we start to
build up our algorithmic tool belt we
can start to find solutions to problems
that take up less memory and perform
less operations per input
now when we're trying to evaluate the
algorithms or the steps that we took to
solve the problem uh we need a way of
talking through how efficient one
solution is compared to another and so
for that we use Big O notation
but why why do we use Big O notation
what the heck why why where does big go
coming from what is this notation uh Big
O notation
just mathematically describes the
complexity of an algorithm like the
steps you took to solve a problem in
terms of how many operations per input
are you taking and how much memory are
you consuming Big O is the mathematical
notation for those two things
and why do we use this
like why why do we need this notation
why do why can't we just say Leon I
wrote code I can see that it's more
efficient than this other code
right why would the code that's running
on my computer what what why do I need
this like universal language to talk
about how efficient my code is
well one it helps us describe it to
others exactly but what we also have to
understand is that if I run an algorithm
on my souped up PC
right my PC has a 30 90 soon to be a 40
90. uh it has a threadripper
3960x like if I run an algorithm on that
computer
versus running an algorithm on my
Chromebook even though it's the same
kind of code
one would run faster right we could
understand that our code runs faster
depending on the computer
it runs faster
depending on the environment
right like I'm running JavaScript in my
browser what if I ran it in in bun
with the same algorithm be faster like
let's stop and think about this question
for a second
the same algorithm running on my Beast
of a PC
30 90. redripper 3960x
256 gigabytes of RAM
right I take that code
right take that code I run it on that PC
I take the same code
and I run it
right take that same code
on a Chromebook
and I just looked at the raw numbers
right on the PC it ran in one second on
the Chromebook it took 20 seconds
does the amount of time that it took the
run on my PC versus the amount of time
that it took to run on my Chromebook
tell me anything
like the raw milliseconds does that tell
me anything
no
so when we're evaluating
when we're evaluating the efficiency of
our code
it's not really
the raw numbers
like how fast
it executes like in terms of like the
actual amount of time when I say time
complexity I'm not really caring about
the actual amount of time
I'm care about the rough estimates
right I care about the rough estimates
so that I can convey
my ideas to you as another software
engineer and you can convey Leon I
actually think we could do this more
optimally in terms of time and we're not
going to sit there and compute the
actual number because that'll be
relative to the computer the environment
how cold it is in your room right like
all those things could affect
the raw milliseconds so we need a way to
talk about the rough
estimates right the way that as
Engineers we can talk through actually
as we do this type if we take these
amount of steps
we're exponentially adding to the number
of operations we have to do and that's
where Big O comes into play and it's
where it's worthwhile to memorize some
common complexities so when we come back
from break we're going to take a look at
some
constant time complexities some
logarithmic some linear some quadratic
see where we might run into these
different scenarios see some some
Oddities as we kind of run into these
different scenarios and hopefully walk
away at the end of tonight being able to
look at a problem and go oh
this algorithm or steps I took to solve
a problem is more efficient because it
is
happening in constant time whereas this
one is less efficient because it is
happening linearly
and we're actually going to see some
really we're going to see some
examples where at first it seems like it
might be one but as we think about it
we're going to realize oh it probably is
another so when we come back we're going
to see the common complexities again get
some nice space repetition in we're
going to see some real world examples of
a problem that I'm currently facing and
how I could solve it using this Big O
notation when we're going to actually
take a look at some common stuff that we
use every single day in JavaScript and
ask ourselves wait a minute underneath
the hood what type of complexity are we
talking about now you could big brain it
and go deep into like the real math
behind all this stuff if you really want
to like nerd out about Big O notation
and you have somewhat of a math
background the cool thing is that like
mit's Entire Computer Science curriculum
is online including all their lectures
on this stuff and so for folks that have
that background and want to you can
definitely dig into it
but is it necessary
Charlie said hard pass no it's
absolutely not necessary
once you have a job
you're getting paid well to do this
stuff and you want to start leveling up
you can come back to all this right do
you need it for your first job do you do
do developers make it their whole career
without knowing this stuff absolutely
right but once you get paid you want to
come back and level up you can it's all
out there for free talk through some
common complexities we talked about Big
O being rough estimates let's go ahead
and take a look at some of these
complexities let's take a look at our
quadratic our linear our logarithmic our
constant and I actually want to get to
the point where like we can understand
like What's Happening Here
like if we look at this it looks like
um
it looks like in some situations
uh linear first example is better than
uh logarithmic and I want to make sure
that by the end of tonight we kind of
understand like how that could be true
so that's kind of one of our goals for
this uh this this uh portion all right
we saw last class the basics so we're
going to kind of walk through it to get
our repetition in and we're going to see
a new one and then we're going to have a
greater talk about it and then we're
going to see some examples all right for
all of our inputs to our algorithm uh
there will only never be one operation
required so no matter how many inputs we
have going into
right how many inputs we have going into
our algorithm only one operation is
being performed right and so
we call this o of one or constant time
uh what is the classic example of
something that has a lot of inputs but
only requires one operation
something we saw quite a few times
yeah getting getting like looping
through like getting getting not looping
through everybody like getting something
out of an array right
if we wanted to grab say the first
number out of an array no matter how
many inputs we have coming into this
array this would go from one to a to a
billion right if we still want the first
number boom we can do index zero and get
that first number if we want the last
number we can do array and inside the
square brackets we could do the array
dot length minus one and that would
still give us
one operation even though there is a
billion inputs
right and so the beauty here is that we
can have any number of input that are
going but only take one operation so we
consider this constant time
all right
now another example we saw last class
was this idea that as our inputs
increase so do our operations right so
for each input I have my operations
increase when I have an operation for
each input we call that linear o of n or
linear and what is an example something
we've seen that was linear
yeah looping through an array of numbers
right
um four string said why is this not two
steps don't confuse steps with like the
total number of operations remember
we're going for rough estimates here
right we're going for it it's not the
actual like counting of steps it's like
what do we have to do based on that
input coming in so even if you treat it
like grabbing the value and then like
and then and then like putting that
value into the index right that's still
like two steps for any number of inputs
so if that was
two one what is two one reduced down to
one right so we'll see that again in a
little bit but the idea here is that if
you're doing something it's it's about
yeah it's a rough measure right it's a
rough measure it's it's not the exact
like oh I did this this like no no it's
a rough measure of how many operations
you're performing so in this case we
consider this one operation if we want
it to say Loop through our array and
create like a sum
right like create a sum
right and each sum
requires us to look at each number
that's in the array right so if we have
one two three four five in our array we
Loop through that array we grab the
value
as we Loop through so if there are five
inputs in our array how many operations
are we going to perform
five operations or five inputs is Big O
like the worst case yeah it's like the
worst case scenario that you can run
into and yeah so somebody else say it's
about how it scales exactly we're trying
to measure the efficiency in terms of
time right now right how many operations
so it's about how that that efficiency
scales
remember it's not about the the rough
actual like actual numbers right it's
about talking at a high level about
what's happening in our algorithm and
how does that algorithm scale
as our inputs increase
right if we're talking about something
that's happening in constant time right
we're talking about something that
happens in constant time and it takes
like an extra step for us to get that
value right like it takes like we're
gonna set uh actually we'll see it over
here like if I want it to figure out how
to go from this linear complexity to
something that uses constant time uh we
could use gauss's summation that we
learned about last class right that
gauss's trick or gauss's sum what we
could do is we have this linear
complexity where We're looping through
each number
right We're looping through each number
and as we Loop through we're grabbing
each input to add it to the sum so if
there are five inputs we had five
operations for this linear solution
however when we look at gauss's sum what
we are doing is we are going ahead and
grabbing the last value oops this should
be this should be a I forgot to update
this slide
we are grabbing the last item right the
last item in that array
and so if we have a continuous number
array that's already stored at one two
three four five is contiguous it's it's
sorted we can just grab this five and if
we grab the five we can calculate the
sum using gauss's trick here now
this is two steps right like all right
we're grabbing the last number out of
the array and then we're doing this
fancy math trick with it if we think
about how this scales
as I add
a million
inputs
how many steps have I changed to
it doesn't really matter right it's
still the same thing so if we're talking
about at a high level how does our
algorithm scale if we're talking about a
high level
how many operations are happening right
this is still one operation no matter
how many inputs we have and if you want
to code we need it out and be like all
right I'm going to treat this as a step
that happens in constant time and I'm
going to treat this as a step that
happens in constant time so it's really
it's really o of two what the heck does
o of 2 simplify to
yeah it still reduces to one we wind up
with o of one or constant time right so
even if you wanted to code we now
actually two steps here right now but
that's not what we're thinking about
we're thinking about like all right
total number of operations right all
right total number of operations
and what we're going to do here is if
we're using this gauss's sum no matter
how many inputs we have we're still
performing at base level one operation
the the the algorithm is not getting
more complex we're not doing more work
as we add more inputs so this like I
said last time is what actually
blew my brain right this is what as soon
as I saw this I was like I need to know
my data structures I need to know my
algorithms what else am I missing in
this world where I can go from a linear
complexity to Something in constant time
just by knowing this trick
and that's what the data structures and
algorithms will do for you the more
right
the more
the more you learn
in terms of the how you're organizing
your data and data structures and the
more
you learn the different algorithms that
can take you from a linear to a constant
time complexity the more efficient code
that you can write and it's literally
like unlocking cheat codes
right it's literally unlocking cheat
codes and so that's why we study these
that's why we're doing our stand up
every day it's why I'm giving you so
many like tutorials that work through
the basics of this stuff because if you
can have these on your tool belt you can
do really really cool stuff
um some folks are asking like how does
this work out well let's do a simplified
version
um
let's go ahead and do one two and three
so one two and three if we're doing a
linear solution here we're going to grab
each number and add it to our sum so
we'll grab one
and add it to our sum so now our sum is
one and we're going to grab two and add
it to our sum so now we're at three and
we're going to grab three and add it to
our sum and now we're at six so when we
did it linearly we had to do three
operations to get the sum of six
when we use gauss's sum
we have the same array one two
three
we only have to do one operation which
is grabbing that value out of the array
right and so now once we have that value
if we do three plus one it gives us four
four divided by two gives us two two
times that 3 gives us 6. so we performed
one operation we got one input
right we got one input
and we're able to get the same exact sum
if my input my lick array if I add it
a million
I went up to a million now so I'm I'm
adding almost a million new inputs
right because this is 100 million but
I'm adding let's say 100 million inputs
right
does my number of operations change at
all with this solution
can I still get the sum
right
yeah it doesn't change I can still get
to some now
I can feel the code weenies just just
shaking in their boots they're they're
nerding out about the more complicated
math that can be had here are there more
nuanced ways to talk about this stuff
are there slightly more mathematical
notations that you can add to discuss
the problems we're talking about
absolutely
but for your first pass and for what
actually matters right for what actually
matters when you're trying to evaluate
the efficiency of the solutions you're
writing for your code Wars that doesn't
matter
right so you could you can stop shaking
it's okay we understand that you that
you took your your intro to math class
in your computer science classroom like
that that's okay we don't need it right
now once we're getting paid real money
we'll go back and learn all that stuff
well then said unclutch thy buttocks
well actually
all right let's talk about quadratic uh
what's the example of a quadratic
complexity that we saw before
yeah one of the one of the simplest ones
that we've talked about is just nested
for Loops now not every nested for Loop
becomes a quadratic problem but a lot of
times they do uh we'll see one during uh
during stand-up that I've picked out
specifically to get you got because
we're going to get so used to seeing
next if we're loops and go quadratic
quadratic but I'm going to throw one in
that's not quadratic so just as a note
there but
here we are checking to see uh if there
are duplicate nums uh that are not the
current num and so we have an array that
goes one two one two three four five
five and what we are doing
right what we are doing is grabbing a
number
right We're looping through on the
outside our outside for Loop is looping
through grabbing a number and then we
have an internal for Loop that's making
sure that we're going to run through
each number again so we're going to
compare one
to one but since that's at the same
number at the same index it doesn't
count then we're going to compare one to
two one to three one to four one the
five one the five and realize that there
are no duplicate ones and then our
outside Loop runs again
and we do one two three four five five
three one two three four five five four
one two three four five five five
finally runs one two three four five
finally finds the duplicate and stops
right so the problem here with a
quadratic solution
right
the problem with the quadratic solution
is that if we were just to add one more
input think about
how many more operations we actually
have to do
right if we just add one more input each
one of these now has a six in it right
so we added one input and immediately we
can see right away four more operations
right almost like completely exponential
right like literally adding one input we
have to do all these more operations and
so the quadratic can get pretty sticky
pretty quickly because you're adding one
input and boom the number of operations
you you have to do is is going up and so
if we were to think through some of the
things that we might want to be wary of
introducing into our code base
this might be one of them right whenever
we see a quadratic solution we should
probably stop and think is there a way
right is there a way to do this more
efficiently
all right
uh the last one that we hadn't had a
chance to talk about and I'm just going
to talk about it high level I'm not
going to bog you down with like the
actual code to be able to talk about
something called logarithmic
uh
and a weight logarithmic works is with a
specifically a specific algorithm called
divide and conquer
is that for
each Loop that you do your operations
become halved right so for each Loop you
do your operations become halved so
let's think about
let's think about a
a an array here
that goes from one
to a million
right goes from one
and I want the number
five hundred thousand
if I was to do this linearly
how many operations am I about to
perform to get to the number 500 000.
I'm about to do 500 000 operations well
what if I told you there was an
algorithm that enables me to crack my
array in half
and that's the operation so I take my
array going from one to a million and I
crack it in half
and I look and I see on this side it
went from one to four hundred and ninety
nine thousand
999.
is 499 999
less than 500 000.
yes so I throw it away ye
and now I can look at my other half and
see oh 500 000 I'm there done
so it went from 500
000 operations when we were doing a
linear complexity right to two
to two
let's talk about a different let's talk
about 750 000.
if we were doing it linearly
and we're yes we're assuming some things
here it's already sorted it's continuous
it's going from one to a million right
right
250 000. we take our array of one to a
million we crack it in half is 499 999
less than 750 000. yes so what do we do
with it that whole set of numbers what
do we do with it
ye
we take a look at our another half other
half is half a million to a million
so what do you think we do with this set
that's
half a million to a million
crack it in half we look at the number
all right
749 999
is that less than 750 000 it is yeet
put out the window and then boom so we
did how many cracks there we did one
crack for half a million another
crackers under two thousand so we went
to two
operations
so this logarithmic right this
logarithmic algorithms
can approach something
that is not quite constant time
but it can be really efficient
especially with large amounts of inputs
right it can be really efficient with
large amounts of inputs because we could
have a billion inputs and literally in
two operations get to the thing that we
cared about
now
let's think about a scenario here
why does it look like
for
a small number of inputs
why does it look like
linear
complexities
could maybe be better
like let's look at this we can see
logarithmic here is taking more time
linear is taking less time until we get
to like more inputs
and I think it's worthwhile to mention
that like with a small number of inputs
and you'll learn this from the homework
that was assigned uh for this week with
a small number of inputs you're really
not going to be optimizing for
efficiency you should be optimizing for
like readability and some other things
right because it gets a little wonky uh
with small input sizes so
we just said Leon wait if you had a
million inputs and we went to get the
500 000 or 750 000 it was so quick it
was two operations as opposed to all
these all the other ones we had with a
linear complexity
so why with a small number of inputs
could could linear be better than
logarithmic
let's think
Let's do let's do a small number of
inputs shall we
let's do a small number of inputs
uh if we were to do
let's say we wanted to do the number
three
right or or let's let's make it let's
make it even bigger let's go ahead and
say let's say number of
one through ten
the Pen's not working
all right let's stop at four
uh let's make it five
all right
look at six make it easier sorry my pen
stopped working
there you go
all right
let's say
I want
the number
two
I want the number two
linearly
how many operations am I going to do
do one two
logarithmically
how many operations am I about to do
right we're going to do our first crack
boom
first crack
right we see three and four we eat out
four
we do our next crack maybe we have one
and two three
so maybe we're at like two operations
but maybe even like that third crack has
to happen so we're already kind of at a
similar
right we're already kind of like at a
similar number of operations
what if
we were looking for
the number two
inside that original array of a million
if I'm doing it linearly
how many operations am I taking
to get to that too
linearly I'm still doing
one two operations boom I got the number
I cared about but if I'm doing it
logarithmically
all right boom crack a million to half a
million crack that half a million 250
000 crack that 250 000 into 125 crack
that 125 in the 75 crack that 75 into
right
think about all those cracks we have to
do to get to that number two
and so there are some cases
right there are some cases where when
you're just thinking about rough
estimates right rough estimates if you
focused on like the raw math
you would see some weird stuff with low
input sizes
but when we are trying to figure this
stuff out do we care about like the raw
math do we care about the raw compute
speed
do we care about the raw numbers
no we are doing it I thought that was on
the other side sorry we are doing it
to get rough estimates to figure out how
our complexity scales to figure out the
worst case scenario so when we are
looking at low amounts of inputs things
can get a little weird right things get
a little weird we can be like hmm
maybe linearly could be a little bit
better in this scenario but we're
talking about
rough estimates we're talking about
worst case scenarios we're talking about
how things scale
and so
we keep that in mind as we're valuing
the complexity of our applications
it's important to commit these to memory
the quadratic the linear the logarithmic
the constant those are the ones we start
off with are there more yes
right there are more
they have ethos a thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
right
Community sort of memory are important
because it's going to help you talk
about your Solutions As You Are
right as we are
going through our interviews as we are
working with other Engineers it's
important to be able to identify
something that might be quadratic
it's important to be able to identify oh
this might be happening linearly oh this
is important to see that oh this might
be happening logarithmically and though
this might be happening in constant time
right and so it's not that we're
worrying about the
day-to-day Raw map the day-to-day uh
exact details it's about being able to
take like a high level approach to
what's happening in your code and so
part of what we're doing during
stand-ups is doing that we're looking at
the code that we write each day be like
all right I think this is actually
happening linearly or I think this is
happening quadratically I think this is
happening logarithmically and seeing
those examples come to life but you can
start doing this uh with your code
challenges every day as you're doing
your code Wars as you're doing your
Elite codes you should be asking
yourself is this the most efficient
how efficiently am I solving this is
there any way to get this to go from a
quadratic to a linear there's any way to
get this to go from a linear to constant
time
and as you do this tutorials that I
assigned for homework as you keep
pushing I'll keep going to give you I'm
going to give you a third one as well so
we start off with the scotch i o and
we're moving on to uh the older front
end Masters and then we'll move on to
Prime's newer front end Masters by the
time you make it through those three
tutorials you'll have enough data
structures and algorithms in your tool
belt that for pretty much whatever you
run into you should be okay you combine
that with our daily stand-ups where you
have lots of practice you'll be golden
but
all of this is just the what
the sprinkles
the cherry on top
exactly the extra do you need to to
Super focus on this no
ing the basics here is enough to
honestly impress quite a few
interviewers uh and for some interviews
that want you to go super deep into Big
O and they want you to give you like a
super more optimized Solution that's
just one of your 60 and you keep it
moving
cool
all right
I have a problem
a big problem
the problem is that the price of boxes
is too damn High
uh I I have a thing you know my thing is
Pokemon I've been doing this for a long
time
foreign
box
first edition
not only first edition
but first edition misprint
misprint
collect up to 139 different Pokemon
playing the red version this is the Blue
version folks but it says Red version on
the back not only is it first edition
it's first edition misprint
bruh
first edition
first edition or first print whatever
you want to call it
first print
the Holy Grail
sealed in box
sealed ugh
and then the greatest stuff started
happening
oh my gosh oh
so
here's the problem
the problem is
can't stop buying boxes
and
the cost of boxes
are too damn High
if you go and look at boxes right now
you go on eBay
stuff like this
right
Pokemon Blue
Factory sealed
VGA 85 Plus
sold
for 7K
right
sold for 7K
but you go on eBay
you go on eBay
and somebody's offering
a VGA 80
of inferior quality
for 30k
so I'm sorry not too big sorry I didn't
go back to little Leon right we look
VGA 85 Plus sold like actually sold 7K
but then somebody same time frame
or an inferior version once 30k so not
only the price of box is way too high
the price is all over the place uh
it it's just it's just ridiculous
right and so real purchasing
right the real purchasing doesn't go
down on eBay that's where you get got
it really goes down in like Facebook
groups uh it goes down in like these
other marketplaces that are on eBay
and uh
it's really hard to keep track of stuff
so what I want to do
is I want to build a platform
right I want to filter I want to build a
platform where folks can list their
boxes for sale
right and list their boxes for sale and
I want to be able to like have some
quality of life features for myself
where when I create this bidding
platform
uh you can you can find how quickly like
the maximum and bids are we can see if
those bids are reasonable compare them
to pass bids like I want to build a nice
reasonable bidding platform for where
people really buy boxes
right
now
I want to build this platform
and
people are like Leon you're flexing I'm
not flexing
I wanted to flex
show you this
this is this is learning see
see this is a flex
and if you know you know
this is a flex now what's on here
is a backup
of a cartridge did I still have working
by the way
that sealed and locked away
this is my backup
and on this backup
is the dump
of My Pokemon Blue
and on this dump of My Pokemon Blue
is a gen 1
mu
with
certificate of authenticity from the
1999 Pokemon
trainer tour
see now that's what I would have brought
out because if
you collect Pokemon
and you're going for a full Dex
you ain't got this
now the real Flex is
I don't have just one now
I have two
with letters of authenticity
with working cartridges and uh
that's all we'll say
back to our regular schedule programming
okay now problem is boxes are too
expensive
right
I actually didn't buy that Mew the the
second Mew I traded uh I I trade most
like I don't buy any of this stuff I
trade for it like all right like this is
this was like my hobby for a long time I
would go to swap meets I would go to
gaming conventions I would
bring cash buy it severe discounts
resell use the money I made to like buy
what I wanted to buy and I started
getting into this way before the prices
went up
um now
to get the second Mew just because we're
here uh well the way I did it is I have
a bunch of when you used to go to
when you used to go to like GameStop you
would get the event Pokemon well those
event Pokemon are actually on cartridges
that you put into like the different
game boys or 3DS's and stuff like that
they weren't meant to be resold but I
have I've I've I don't say all of them
I've pretty much all of them though I'm
pretty close to having all of them and
so I traded a bunch of those like event
exclusive cartridges for the Mew
that's probably the best trade I've ever
ever did
is he still talking about this yeah get
timed out
you don't now you have to worry about
talking about anything
this is important to me
all right so prices of boxes are too
damn High
right this is this is one of my my
Supreme Hobbies this is what I spend a
lot of my time on boxes are too high the
real bidding
is going down in right the real bidding
is going down
in other platforms that are not
centralized and so I want to build a
bidding platform where I can really
easily take a look and see if there is
the the Min bid and a Max bid on every
box that has ever been sold
right I want to see the the full range
of bids on all the boxes that are being
sold
right
now
I could find let's say the men in
backspids by looping through all the
bids that have been made
right all the bids that have been made
on a particular box so let's say I pull
in all the bids for every Pokemon Blue
that's ever been listed on the platform
I have all these bids that are all over
the place
two seven three one four five five uh
how could I find the Min and Max bids
well I could Loop through all the bids
right I could Loop through all the bids
and then compare the current bid
to the bid that I am currently in with
the internal Loop so if I had this this
array up here two seven
three
one
four
five
right I could grab the two
and then compare it to two seven three
four five and then I could compare the
seven to two seven three four five then
I can compare the three to the the three
the sorry the two the seven the three
the four and the five that could compare
the four
to the two the seven the three of the
four and the five and then I could
compare the five to the well the two the
seven the three the four the five right
and while I am looping through all of
these bids
right inside that internal Loop not am I
only comparing the numbers but I'm
saying hey
is the bid that I am currently on
greater than the current Max bid so is
two greater than seven nah we would skip
this
is eventually seven greater than two
then yeah that should be a candidate for
Max bid is four greater than seven no is
is five greater than seven no is five
greater seven no so then we would have
our Max bid that was set inside this
Loop we could also be setting our Min
bid inside this loop as well we do two
compared to two nothing happens is two
less than seven no so nothing happens is
two less than three no so nothing
happens is one less than uh less than
two yes so then our Min bid becomes one
so I could have a loop on the outside
that's looping through all the numbers
and then a loop on the inside that's
grabbing each number and comparing it to
the number that we are currently at and
we're setting our Max and Min bids
would this work
it would work
but would it be
efficient
yes but at what cost the cost of time
exactly
it would cost a lot of time
uh this is really bad code this is us
being baddies brute forcing it it works
we found the Max and the min
right we brute forced it we came up with
a solution but at what cost
what would be the complexity of this
solution
nested for Loops yep nested four Loops
we're talking about
quadratic complexity now if I'm building
a bidding platform
right and the platform becomes popular
we have a lot of people in chat here
that were very very interested in the
Pokemon conversation I just had lots of
potential customers for this new bidding
platform especially as you all start to
get these amazing jobs and realizing
that all the money that you're making
should be funneled into boxes right
lots of folks might be using this
platform the more people that are on the
platform the more bids the more bids
means
what in this scenario if we still have a
quadratic solution
MLM incoming this has all been about
getting you all to buy more boxes
yeah it means more bids as we increase
the bids oh [__]
way more operations are happening
this would be
the Crux of our bidding platform
this would make our platform work at
first with just us but as it started to
take off and it became a more popular
platform this Loop would take more and
more time it would get harder and harder
it would become something that could
slow down our application significantly
so this is a real thing that we have to
think through even if it was just a
simple silly application like a boxes
bidding platform
right so how can we not be baddies and
write inefficient quadratic code what
would be some way of fixing our bidding
platform right fixing our bidding
platform so that
it didn't take as many as much time or
as many operations
well let me show you something first
what if one Loop
found the min
and the other loop found the max let's
take a look so here's a loop here's a
for Loop and all this for Loop is doing
is moving through
each number
and comparing if that number is greater
than the max bid
so what happens at first is Max bid is
set equal to the first number in the
array so max bid
starts off as one
then we Loop through and say hey
is
two
greater than one
since two is greater than one what does
Max bid become
Max bid becomes two all right is seven
greater than two
yes since 7 is greater than two what
does Max bid become
well it becomes seven
and we do the same thing for three four
five five none of them are greater than
the seven so we return our Max bid of
seven
what type of complexity uh was this Loop
it was linear right as we added more
numbers
we simply added one operation for each
item now the cool thing is
I could just do this again with another
loop that does the same thing for a
minimum bid but instead of it being
greater than we're looking for less than
right now I'm not nesting them it's just
one Loop that runs
right it's one Loop that runs for the
max bid
and then a completely separate Loop that
runs for the Min bed
now what's the complexity of the max
Loop and what's the complexity of the
Min Loop there are two separate Loops
what's the complexity of each
yeah they are both linear and since they
are both linear we wind up with
something that's 2N
right we wind up with something that's 2
n
and since it is 2N
right what is this reduced down into we
have two linear Loops right we have two
linear loops
right we could think about this right as
even though we have two linear Loops
they don't rely on each other
right doesn't care what one Loop is
doing with the other loop we can still
think of it as o of n
right
right they don't rely on one another
they're just separate linear Loops we
don't have to think about them as
anything that would be quadratic and
think about anything else it's just two
linear Loops doing their own things when
we have two linear Loops they're doing
their own thing it still boils down to a
linear complexity
right so we went from something that was
nested and bad and quadratic to just
thinking about wait a minute why do we
have to like Nest these things why can't
I just have them run separately and just
with that one decision you've turned a
quadratic problem into a linear problem
cool
so our box bidding app
right
the Box bidding app is now back online
what would have taken us forever to
calculate Min and Max bids right we're
now back online we're we have a linear
solution to our problem now
so folks are kind of a little confused
on how this is going to work
this we agree
is linear
right
it's just one input
for one operation so this Loop runs once
or each input in our array
as we add more inputs
we are linearly adding operations
right so as the number of inputs
increases we are still only adding one
operation for each input
now the cool thing is we have a separate
Loop that is doing or a separate even in
this case function that is handling the
max bid and then we're going to have a
completely separate one that is
doing the Min bid since this
Loop here is linear
and this completely separate Loop that
does not rely on the other one is linear
how many linear Loops do we have
we have two
linear loops
and when we are trying to get the rough
estimation of how much time this would
take we can reduce this two linear Loops
down into just a linear time complexity
right
now this is not a direct corollary to
what we just talked about but let's say
we
had two libraries
right we had one library and we wanted
to
we want it to
we wanted to count each book
in our library right we wanted to start
with the first book and go all the way
to the end
right to grab the last book each book we
did one extra count right we went one to
two to three to four right one to two to
three to four
if we go through our whole Library what
was the complexity of moving through our
entire library to count the books
it was linear
right it was linear now if
if
I was gonna say if if Bezos came along
and says hey Leon
I want to give you a whole other library
but I need you to count the books
I have this whole other Library when I
started the first book and go to the end
how's that complexity what is that
complexity
it's still linear right
so
does it matter
that they were separate libraries it's
still the same process it's still linear
I'm still just doing one operation for
each input I just happen to do it
two separate instances
right and so it's the same thing with
this code here we're just doing
something twice but since they're both
linear nothing changes they were two
separate libraries they were two
separate instances we wouldn't like
magically say oh because there are now
two libraries something has changed no
we did linear and we did linear so it's
still linear even though we now have
more books it could be the same thing as
saying we just have more inputs it's
still linear at the end of the day
cool
now
what if
our data was already sorted
what if our data was already sorted like
what if all of our bids like our Min and
Max bids like what like we have a bid
coming in right we have all these bids
coming in over time I still want the Min
and Max bid
what would that be
yeah that's constant right accessing an
element out of the array happens in
constant time now you might say Leon but
I'm taking two things out of that array
but what we could realize is that all
right it's two things that are happening
but if we think about it at a high level
and we separated out those plucks right
we have our bids that are going from one
to let's say the the most expensive bid
was a hundred thousand
right
I wanted I had this array of bids that
went from one to a hundred thousand uh
does it matter if the bids keep going up
to be something else will it always
still be the same number of plucks
to get them in and the max
like no matter how many bids we add no
no matter how many inputs we add into
this array to get them into the max
they'll always be the same constant
number of operations so even though it's
two things that we're doing we can treat
them as two independent events that are
both constant
right there are two constant things that
are happening you could say that was
O2 but then we could reduce that down to
O of one or constant time
right grabbing the first index would
always be index 0 and then grabbing uh
the the last index would always be the
array
dot length
minus one
wait a minute
hold on
Leoni said accessing it by the zero we
get that that's always going to grab you
the
that's always going to go ahead and grab
you the the first element out of the
array that's clearly constant time
right but then you say to get the last
element in the array you need to do the
array dot length
minus one
well Leon
how fast
or what's the complexity of dot length
what can we tell about dot if we know
that this reduces down to constant what
can we tell about dot length
that length is probably happening in
constant time too and let's think about
it
what is an array really underneath the
hood when it comes to JavaScript
it's an object
and that means that length is really a
what on that object
length is actually a property on that
object remember how I said data
structures aren't just the data it's all
the stuff that comes and helps us
organize that data so arrays are really
an object that has a length property
and as we are adding inputs that length
property is going up so it goes from
when it's just one element in the array
it goes from one when there's two
elements in the array it goes to two and
as we're adding elements to the array
we're actually updating this length
property in real time
and then accessing the property of an
object happens in what type of
complexity
constant someone said does JavaScript
have to count the length somehow no if
it had to
if if our arrays
had to calculate length
right if when we did array
dot length
if it had to go through and do all right
one two three four five if it actually
had to do like that looping each time
for length then it would be what
it would be linear
but we know that arrays are really just
objects underneath the hood I've just
told you now that this length property
is a property on that object and so each
time we add something to the array this
length property has already been updated
to be five so when we go to access the
length we're not like looping through
the array to figure out how many things
there are it's already a property of the
array that we get access to and since
accessing the property of an object is
happening in constant time
we have
array.length
minus one inside of something that's
accessing the array so this is constant
this is happening in constant right so
even though we have like all these
constant times and yes there's a couple
different constants they all reduce down
to constant
because we're not doing
math we're doing high level
rough estimations of what's happening in
our code
right so if you sit here and you try to
like all right one plus two plus three
no no you're missing the you're missing
the uh the mountain here
right you're missing the mountain here
it's that even though
there's a couple things happening here
it's still constant because as we add
way more inputs the operations don't
ever increase it's still gonna be the
same thing no matter how many inputs we
have
oh
all right
um we are we're gonna squeak this out
give me a few more minutes I know we're
at the top of the hour for a break but
ah
let's do a quick five minute break five
minute break and then we'll come back
and we'll finish this up
I do want to end a little early just so
folks can um start working on the
homework
let's go and take a five minute break
when we come back uh we're gonna just
quickly reiterate the the different
examples that we've seen so far and
we're gonna look at some JavaScript and
see what JavaScript is really doing
underneath the hood and what things are
happening in constant time when things
are happening in linear time and it's
just as surprising to me
is when I start to really think about
all right dot length is a property
properties are accessed in constant time
so when we get the length of something
we're not actually going one two three
four the length has always been there
beautiful all right five minutes on the
clock
if you're able to please get up move
around hydrate
and we'll be back together shortly let's
take a look at well I want you all to
give me what's an example of something
happening in constant time
ah yeah access to an array when we use
the when we use the index of an array
that's happening in constant time
beautiful
uh what's something that happens in
linear time
yep Loops like looping through an array
right where maybe we're adding all the
numbers in the array together that would
be linear
how about something that happens in
quadratic time
yep Nest that Loops can be an example of
quadratic time and what's an example of
logarithmic time anybody remember what I
called that
toss on the slides but what's a what's
an example of an algorithm that runs in
logarithmic time
people are throwing up binary search
okay I see y'all yeah any type of divide
and conquer algorithm things like that
cool and let's just take a look very
quickly give me like another couple
minutes and then uh we'll end for the
evening actually going to end early this
time which is amazing
let's take a look at some things that
are actually happening in JavaScript
uh so a method that we use all the time
or especially if you start doing your
code Wars would be pop what does pop do
yeah removes the last item from the
array so if we had
an array with one two three four
five in it pop would grab this five off
of the array
now what complexity think this is
happening in
yeah this is constant right uh
underneath the hood maybe it's just
using the array minus array.length right
to grab that last element out of the
array
and so grabbing that last item element
out of the array happens in constant
time so pop happens in constant time
uh how about shift what does shift do
shift remember takes the first element
off of the array
so what would if pop is is constant what
a shift
and a lot of y'all did the homework
all right so kind of you got got so you
would think if pop is constant why
wouldn't shift be constant well we have
to think about the data structure at
play which is the array so if I was to
shift off
the one
what happens to the two
well the two has to become the zeroth
element
and the three has to become the first
and the four has to become that and that
has to become that not only you're just
removing the first element off but
you're literally changing the index
of every single element and so that
makes this no longer constant but what
linear exactly linear yep so we could
see a pop being constant time but shift
since it's literally changing the entire
array that's linear beautiful we already
talked about length right length is a
property that's being set as the array
gets bigger so when our array just has
one in it the length property on that
array is one
when we add another element it becomes
two and we add another element it
becomes three and we add another element
it becomes four and we add another
element it becomes five right but it's
happening at the same time so when I go
ahead and I try to use dot length I'm
not even looking at all the numbers in
the array
I'm looking at this property that has
been kept up with as the array got
bigger so since I'm just accessing the
property of an object this is what
constant beautiful concept yes we're
getting some of this I love it all right
now we also have these methods that come
baked in with a lot of stuff we use in
JavaScript we use things like arrays and
uh we see them a couple of other places
so we have like these four each these
Maps these reduce where they're looping
through elements in the array what would
be the complexity of a for each a map or
a reduce
okay yeah well underneath the hood they
are just a simple Loop so that would be
linear however
however
some of these take in a callback right
they're higher order functions they take
in a callback and depending on what that
callback does these could no longer be
what
they could go from linear to be
something else depending on the call
block that you passed in
so we'll actually see that during our
stand-ups where we'll use something that
off the Jump
looks linear but depending on the
Callback we're passing into it could get
us into some other types of complexities
cool all right look at us go look at us
understanding how pop could be constant
but shift can be linear understanding
the different complexities of the
JavaScript we've been writing all along
able to have a really weird problem
where we're saying all right we want to
create a bidding platform because Leon
wants the bidding platform we're able to
think through high level all right if we
want to get min and Max bids we should
stay away from these like nested Loops
because that'll get us into quadratic
but if we were to separate out the Min
and Max into their own Loops those are
both linear and that was reduced on the
linear like this is the stuff that we
start thinking about
as we progress through the stages of our
engineering muscle right and so we're
adding little sprinkles here so we can
get more comfortable with these tools
that are nice to have on our tool belt
now the weenie life yeah now
you had the scotch I O course to work
through
I'm asking you to work through this uh
practical algorithms course uh which is
also a completely free course to go
through this will be two out of three
algorithms courses that I'm asking to
work through
um this one is four hours but expect to
take double the triple that amount of
time to work through it I'm gonna give
you like a week or two to like at least
like a week or two to get through it
um because you're gonna slowly start to
see me incorporate it into the stand-ups
uh and also it's just important for you
to get this knowledge underneath your
belt so uh you got through the scotch IO
which I know is really helpful for a lot
of folks I'm seeing a lot of your
answers have been influenced by that
which is really cool now you have this
one which will using it uses regular
JavaScript so all the stuff you already
know and slowly builds you up
um slowly build you up to having all
these different tools and Tool belts on
your belt so please this is the core
homework I need you to get through over
the next week or so
please do it it's going to help you it's
going to help you immensely put these
sprinkles on top but your true homework
and the reason why we're ending early
you have 30 minutes plus of time left
over and what I want you to do is to
take your first step of the hunt if you
have not been applying if you have not
been reaching out tonight is the night
where you start your hunt so take the
next 30 minutes find an open job find
somebody to talk at that company send
them an email send them a cold Lincoln
message do whatever you need to do to
get on the radar somebody at that
company
you're gonna do it tonight
if you need the templates exclamation
point templates
we come back on Thursday I'm gonna build
out a Hit List live I'm going to show
you all the messages I would send
so that you can mimic what I'm doing and
take your hunt in stride on everybody no
raid tonight because I really do want
you to take that first step
no delay start today you are more than
ready you are more than qualified you
are a phenomenal lean mean software
engineering machine
time to get you a job everybody have a
wonderful rest of your evening I will
see you all tomorrow for stand up I will
see you all again on Thursday for stand
up again for class Friday for tea spill
Sunday
for our office hours and we do the whole
thing again next week folks all right
everybody have a wonderful rest of your
night take your first step don't just
click off and not do anything take the
step you deserve it you owe you
good night everybody peace